Law 1 -THE PLAYERS

1.1 Number of Players

A match is played between two sides. Each side shall consist of 11 players, one of whom shall be
captain.

In exceptional circumstances a team may participate in a match with less than eleven players.
However, in such circumstances there must be a minimum of Eight (8) players in each team that are
eligible to participate for the team who are official playing squad members.

Per DCL Playing conditions, later arriving team penalty:

If the team does not have 8 players on the field at the scheduled start time of the game, penalties for
taking the field late are as follows, if the team takes the field:

         a) Between minute 1 and minute 15 of scheduled start time: Deduct 2 overs.
         b) After 15 minutes from Scheduled start time and before 30 mins of the schedule start time:

              Deduct 5 overs.
         c) After 30 minutes of scheduled start time, give a grace period of 15 more minutes for the

              other team to show up.
         d) If they don't, after 45 minutes from the scheduled start time, the waiting team will get a

              walk-over and 4 points and walk-over penalty apply to the team who didn't show up or
              doesn't have the minimum number of players to play the game

    Note:

         a) Both umpires use cell phone time to make the judgement.
         b) Each bowler can bowl a maximum of 4 overs in DCL /DLCL T20 overs
         c) Each bowler can bowl a maximum of 6 overs in DLCL 30 Overs.
         d) Each bowler can bowl a maximum of 8 overs in DLCL 40 Overs.

Example for penalized DCL T20 game: TEAM A came on time, TEAM B came 30 minutes late, got
penalized for 5 overs. Batting TEAM B power play will remain 6 overs for T20 and for 30 overs and 40
overs refer to the above table in law 28.7. TEAM A bowlers can still bowl maximum allowed overs as
mentioned in the above Notes.

1.2 Nomination of Players

1.2.1 Per DCL playing conditions,

    a) Both captains must submit their Playing XI on the DCL website/app immediately after the toss.
    b) Each team must include a Captain, Vice-Captain, and Wicketkeeper in their Playing XI on the

         app.
    c) Player names must be accurate and not forged.
    d) The opposing captain has the right to request ID proof of any player.
    e) Misrepresenting a player's name may lead to forfeiture of the match and suspension of the

         captain.
    f) All players must be registered on the DCL website. No exceptions will be permitted.
    g) If a player is registered but pending approval, then the team captain must inform both the

         umpire and the opposing captain of the pending registration details before the match begins.
                                                                                                              11

    h) It is the notified umpire's responsibility to communicate the situation to the other umpire.

1.2.2 While selecting the Playing XI on the DCL website/app, errors may occasionally occur (e.g., an
incorrect player being selected).

         1.2.2.1 Upon identifying such an error, it is the captain's responsibility to immediately notify
         both the opposing captain and the umpire.

         1.2.2.2 Regardless of whether the issue is flagged before or after the match, the game shall
         proceed as scheduled.

         1.2.2.3 In case of any disputes or discrepancies, teams may raise a disciplinary ticket through
         the official DCL process for review and resolution.

         1.2.2.4 If the team captain fails to notify both the umpire and the opposing captain about an
         incorrect player selection, and a disciplinary ticket is raised, DCL may impose the following
         penalties:

              1.2.2.4.1 If the player on the ground is found to be on the Team's Tournament roster or
              at the minimum in the Team's roster and not playing for any other team, then
              a) The captain of the team will be suspended for a minimum of 2 games.

              1.2.2.4.2 If the player on the ground is found to be only on the Team's roster and the
              player was playing for another team, then
              a) The captain of the team will be suspended for a minimum of 2 games,
              b) The player in question will be suspended for a minimum of 2 games
              c) The game will be awarded to the opposition team.

              1.2.2.4.3 When the player on the ground is found to be an un-registered player in DCL and
              no pending profile request before the start of the game, then
              a) The captain of the team will be suspended for a minimum of 2 games
              b) The game will be awarded to the opposite team.

         1.2.2.5 When the captain of the team informed the umpire and the opposition captain about
         the wrong player selection, the following rules will apply

              1.2.2,5.1 When the player on the ground is found to be on the Team's Tournament roster
              or at the minimum in the Team's roster and not playing for any other team, then
              a) The scorecard can be updated after the game by selecting the correct player's name

                   who played the game.

              1.2.2.5.2 When the player on the ground is found to be only on the Team's roster and the
              player was playing for another team, then
              a) The captain of the team will be suspended for a minimum of 2 games
              b) The player in question will be suspended for a minimum of 2 games
              c) The game will be awarded to the opposition team.

              1.2.2.5.3 When the player on the ground is found to be an un-registered player in DCL and
              has no pending profile request before the start of the game, then
              a) The captain of the team will be suspended for a minimum of 2 games
              b) The game will be awarded to the opposite team.
                                                                                                              12

1.2.4. In addition, by their nomination, the nominees shall be deemed to have agreed to abide by all
the DCL playing regulations

1.2.5. A player or player support personnel who has been suspended from participating in a match
shall not, from the toss of the coin and for the remainder of match thereafter

         1.2.5.1 Be nominated as, or carry out any of the duties or responsibility of a substitute
         fielder or

         1.2.5.2 Enter any part of the playing area (which shall include the field of play and the area
         between the boundary and the perimeter boards) at any time, including any scheduled or
         unscheduled breaks in play.

1.2.7 If a player sustains a serious injury and needs to be taken to hospital or ER, a substitute may be
permitted upon approval by umpire. Otherwise in general, substitutes are NOT allowed in DCL.

1.3 -Captain

1.3.1 If at any time the captain is not available, a deputy shall act for him.

1.3.2 If a captain is not available to nominate the players, then any person associated with that team
may act as his/her deputy to do so.

1.3.3 At any time after the nomination of the players, only a nominated player can act as deputy in
discharging the duties and responsibilities of the captain as stated in these Playing Conditions,
including at the toss.

1.4 Responsibility of captains

The captains are always responsible for ensuring that play is conducted within the Spirit of Cricket as
well as within these Playing Conditions.

1.5 Playing Squad

The captains must ensure playing XI must include player registered and included in team
tournament roaster.

For additional rules, refer to 1.2 Nomination of Players

During playoffs games, only players who had played 3 games during the league stage are
eligible to play in playoffs. All validations of player must happen before start of the game.
Once the game has started, it's assumed verification by opposite captain is complete and
stands good. No issues can be raised after the game is started.

1.6 Equipment

Teams must carry Cones/Flags for setting up 30 Yard or Boundary lines. One team must Set one set
of cone before game and remove other set after the game.
                                                                                                              13

Teams must carry one set of good spring stumps. Failure to carry one might result in docking overs
for delay of start

Law 2 - THE UMPIRES

2.1 -Appointment and attendance

The following rules for the selection and appointment of umpires shall be followed as far as it is
practicable to do so:

2.1.1 The umpires shall control the game as required by these Playing Conditions, with absolute
impartiality.
2.1.2 DCL shall appoint the on-field umpires on neutrality as far as possible, Neutrality means umpire
from different division with no conflict of interest. For Finals only DCL shall appoint neutral umpires
from list of DCL panel of umpires.
2.1.6 Neither team shall have a right of objection to the appointment of any umpire.
2.1.7 Teams assigned with umpires must send umpires for the game and must be on field -at least 15
minutes prior to the start of the game
2.1.8 Umpires in all leather ball formats must have DCL certification or equivalent.
Failure to send umpire could draw penalties ­ refer Appendix B

2.2 ­ Change of umpire

An umpire shall not be changed during the match, other than in exceptional circumstances, unless
he/she is injured or ill

2.4 ­ The wickets, crease and boundaries

Before the toss and during the match, the umpires shall satisfy themselves that.
2.4.1 the creases are correctly marked per Law 7
2.4.2 the wicket square with mid stump is marked properly
2.4.3 the boundary of the field of play complies with requirements of law 19. Teams are urged to use
flags markers for boundaries (as cones tend to move) and small cones for 30-yard circle markings.
Umpire must force playing teams to set up crease marking and cone setup before the start of game.

2.5 ­ Conduct of the match, implements and equipment

Before the toss and during the math, the umpires shall satisfy themselves that
2.5.1 the conduct of the match is strictly in accordance with playing conditions
                                                                                                              14

2.5.2 the implements used in the match conform to the following

         2.5.2.1 For 20, 30, and 40 over leather format the ball, umpires must collect two new balls
         from teams before start of game and make sure they are of same make given by DCL.

         2.5.2.2 For T20, tape ball format, umpires must collect 8 taped balls from each team before
         the start of the game. If the temperature during the game falls below 65 degrees Fahrenheit,
         umpires must collect 12 taped balls from each team. The used/tape ripped balls must be in
         possession of umpires during the entire game. After the game, the Umpires must
         return/distribute the balls to the two captains. At any stage balls need to be retaped, balls
         earlier collected must be used to retape, new balls should not be used.

         2.5.2.3 For 20, 30, and 40 over leather format the batsman must wear helmets all the time
         while at crease no exceptions. The wicket keeper must wear helmet while standing up to the
         wicket.

2.5.3 no player uses equipment other than permitted

2.7 ­ Fitness for play

The following rules for the selection and appointment of umpires shall be followed as far as it is
practicable to do so:

2.7.1 If one team objects to the condition of the ground and other team would like to play, the
Umpires will be the sole judge to determine condition of ground and convey to both teams in the
presence of both captains. Both umpires must agree with the decision. If one umpire agrees and
other doesn't status quo remains. Unless an objection is raised umpires cannot call off game citing
unfair conditions of ground

Conditions shall not be regarded as either dangerous or unreasonable merely because they are not
ideal

The fact that the grass and the ball are wet does not warrant the ground conditions being regarded
as unreasonable or dangerous.

2.7.2 Conditions shall be regarded as dangerous if there is actual and foreseeable risk to the safety
of a player or umpire.

2.7.3 Conditions shall be regarded as unreasonable if, although posing no risk to safety, it would not
be sensible for play to proceed.

2.7.4 If the umpire considers the ground is so wet or slippery as to deprive the bowler of a
reasonable foothold, the fielders of the power of free movement, or the batter of the ability to play
their strokes or to run between the wickets, then these conditions shall be regarded as bad that it
would be dangerous and unreasonable for play to take place.

2.7.5 When game is played from both ends (Leather Ball), bowling team always decides which end to
start the innings.

2.7.6 When game is played from one side and there is no clear indication or tradition of which end to
start, and both teams dispute on preferred end and are not in agreement with no obvious reason for
                                                                                                              15

dispute (like Glare or sunset) , Second toss is to be taken place to decide on batting end and bowling
end for entire game. First Toss is for Batting or Bowling decision.

2.9 ­ Position of umpires

The umpires shall stand where they can best see any act upon which their decision may be required.

Subject to this over-riding consideration, the bowler's end umpires shall stand in a position so, as
not to interfere with either the bowler's run-up or the striker's view.

The striker's end umpire may elect to stand on the off side instead of the on side of the pitch,
provided he/she informs the captain of the fielding side, the striker and the other umpire.

2.11 ­ Disagreement and dispute

Where there is disagreement or dispute about any matter, the umpires together shall make the final
decision.

2.12 ­ Umpires decision

An umpire may alter any decision provided that such alteration is made promptly and does not
contradict dead ball not to revoked call. This apart, an umpire's decision, once made is final

2.13 ­ Signals

2.13.1 The following code of signals shall be used by umpires. 2.13.1.1 Signals made while the ball is
in play

No ball ­ by extending one arm horizontally.
Out ­ by raising an index finger above the head
Wide ­ by extending both arms horizontally.
Dead ball ­ by crossing and re-crossing the wrists below the waist.

2.13.1.2 When the ball is dead, the bowler's end umpire shall repeat the signals in clause 2.13.1.1,
with the exception of the signal for Out, to the scorers.

2.13.1.3 The signals listed below shall be made to the scorers only when the ball is dead.

Boundary 4 ­ by waving an arm from side to side finishing with the arm across the chest.

Boundary 6 ­ by raising both arms above the head. Bye ­ by raising an open hand above the head.

Five Penalty runs awarded to the batting side ­ by repeated tapping of one shoulder with the
opposite hand.

Five Penalty runs awarded to the fielding side ­ by placing one hand on the opposite shoulder.

Leg bye ­ by touching a raised knee with the hand.

Revoke last signal ­ by touching both shoulders, each with the opposite hand.
                                                                                                              16

Short run ­ by bending one arm upwards and touching the nearer shoulder with the tips of the
fingers.
Free Hit ­ after signaling the No ball, the bowler's end umpire extends one arm straight upwards and
moves it in a circular motion.
Powerplay Over ­ by rotating his/her arm in a large circle.

2.13.1.4 All the signals in clause 2.13.1.3 are to be made by the bowler's end umpire except that for
Short run, which is to be signaled by the umpire at the end where short running occurs. However,
the bowler's end umpire shall be responsible both for the final signal of Short run to the scorers and,
if more than one run is short, for informing them as to the number of runs to be recorded.
2.13.2 The umpire shall wait until each signal to the scorers has been separately acknowledged by a
scorer before allowing play to proceed.
If several signals are to be used, they should be given in the order that the events occurred.

2.14 ­ Informing the umpires

Whenever the umpires are to receive information from captains or other players under these
playing conditions, it will be sufficient for one umpire to be informed and for him/her to inform the
other umpire.

2.15 ­ In-game Scoring

Consultation between umpires and scorers on doubtful points is essential. The umpires shall,
throughout the match, satisfy themselves as to the correctness of the number of runs scored, the
wickets that have fallen and, where appropriate, the number of overs bowled.
The umpires shall ensure that they are able to contact the scorers at any time during the match and
at its conclusion to address any issues relating to the correctness of scores
                                                                                                              17

2.16 ­ Clothing

Pads and players' and umpires' clothing shall be colored (No White color). Shoes (without metal
Spikes) are mandatory for players and umpires.

2.17 ­ Suspension of Play in dangerous and unreasonable conditions.

2.17.1 Weather Conditions

The weather conditions limits (actual temperatures are taken into consideration, not feels like).
Game suspensions related to the temperatures rule can be imposed only if the criteria of extreme
temperatures are met for the entire duration of the game. If there is a time window available to
conduct a minimum / shortened overs game and if the result of the game can be achieved, then
the game must be played within that window with reduced overs. Extreme temperature guidelines
are

(a) Below50F

(b) Above105F

One of the playing teams can request to call off the game or reduced overs game for the above
defined extreme temperature by sending an email notification to dclmgmtops@gmail.com, including
the opposition team captain/vice-captain/ team managers along with both umpiring team
captain/vice-captain/ team managers along with the actual temperature readings from
accuweather.com taken the prior night at 8 PM. Failure to notify DCL management could attract a
penalty of nullifying points to both teams and will be treated as a walk-over for the year.

Law 3 - THE SCORERS

3.1 ­ Appointment of scorers

Two scorers shall be appointed by teams to record all runs scored, all wickets taken and, where
appropriate, number of overs bowled, using DCL Web application.

3.2 ­ Correctness of scores

The scorers shall frequently check to ensure that their records agree and consult with the umpires if
necessary.

3.3 ­ Acknowledging signals

The scorers shall accept all instructions and signals given to them by the umpires and shall
immediately acknowledge each separate signal by show of hand or waving of a cap as agreed with the umpires

before the start of the match.

3.4 ­ Score Update on DCL Website

3.14.3 In the case of Tie or Abandoned game, it is responsibility of both team captains to enter
playing XI on score card on the day of the game.
                                                                                                              18

3.14.4 Any post-game updates to scorecard, Captain must request via ticket on DCL site, mentioning
details on update in ticket and update opposition captain about the changes request.

Law 4 - THE BALL

4.1 ­ Approvals and control of balls

4.2.1 DCL provides each team enrolled in a leather ball format with white leather balls and each
team enrolled in tape format with tennis balls and tape. each team must use these balls only.
Umpire must take control of the balls from both teams before the start of the game. For tape
format, used balls must be in Umpire's control and not thrown back to teams after use.
4.2.2 The umpires shall retain the possession of the match ball(s) throughout the duration of the
match when play is not actually taking place. For tape format, change the ball only if umpires see the
tape is ripped.
4.2.3 During play umpires shall periodically and irregularly inspect the condition of the ball and shall
retain possession of it at the fall of wicket or any other disruption in play.

4.2 ­ Taping the ball

Every bowling side should get a newly taped tennis ball at the beginning of the innings. The decision
to re-tape the ball or to provide a newly taped ball at any stage of the innings is with the umpire(s).
Tampering with the tape of a ball is prohibited
Here are the steps that every team member should follow while taping the balls.
Step 1: Take the tennis ball and hold end of the tape stick the end of the tape on the tennis ball from
wherever you want
Step 2: Now roll the tape around the tennis ball completing circle keep the tension not too tight that
tape lose its elasticity nor too loose that tape become ball itself.
Step 3: Now if you have completed the Second step you have to do same thing over & over again
just rotating the circles you are making to some degrees (to the left or right where ever you want
after completing each circle on the tennis ball, like this photo (Attached)

Step 4: Least but not last make sure you haven't left any open spaces because water is unhealthy for ball
Specially tennis ball (Because tennis ball absorbs a lot of water. Finally tapped tennis ball is ready to be used in
cricket matches.
                                                                                                              19

Step 5: The final seam should be no more than 6 full circles after the ball is fully taped. Watch the YouTube
Video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iXVYqqzNjbk

4.3 ­ New ball

4.3.1 for Leather ball game - One new ball shall be used at the start of each innings.

4.3.2 for tape ball ­ Each team must provide minimum 8 taped balls during summer, and on a colder
days, must provide minimum 12 taped balls to the umpire. Umpire must posses the balls for entirety
of the game and redistribute balls to the teams. Same set of balls must be retaped if running out of
taped balls.

4.4 ­ Ball lost or becoming unfit for play

This is applicable to leather game. If, during play, the ball cannot be found or recovered, or the
umpires agree that it has become unfit for play through normal use, the umpires shall replace it with
a ball which is provided by DCL and the one which has had wear comparable with that which the
previous ball had received before the need for its replacement. If a ball with similar wear and tear is
not found, then a new ball to be used. The umpires will not roughen / scratch the replaced new ball
to get any wear and tear on the surface of the ball.

When the ball is replaced, the umpire shall inform the batter and the fielding captain. (It is
responsibility of playing teams to carry good condition used balls to be used for replacement)

It is team's responsibility to take care of ball and must carry cloth to wipe ball in case of wet outfield.
The teams should hand over few used balls of the same make to the umpires at the time of toss to
avoid loss of time in identifying a replacement ball.

4.5­ Ball to be used during a super over.

4.5.1 For Tape games, newly taped ball must be used for each super over.

4.5.2 For leather games, the umpires should take possession of the ball at the end of an inning
unless the result of the match has been decided.

4.5.3 Teams will be using the same ball while they batted during the regular innings, for the Super
Over too.

Law 5- THE BAT

5.1 ­ Parts of the Bat

The Bat consists of 2 parts, the handle and the blade.
                                                                                                              20

5.2 ­ The Handle

    · The handle is to be made principally of cane and/or wood.
    · The part of the handle that is wholly outside the blade is defined to be the upper portion of

         the handle. It is a straight shaft for holding the bat.
    · The upper portion of the handle may be covered with a grip
    · The handle shall not exceed 52% of the overall length of the bat.

5.3 ­ The Blade

    · The blade comprises the whole of the bat apart from the handle
    · The blade shall consist solely of wood.
    · All bats may have commercial identifications on the blade, the size of which must comply

         with the relevant specification.

5.4 ­ Damage to the ball

    · For any part of the bat, covered or uncovered, the hardness of the materials and the surface
         texture thereof shall not be such that either could cause unacceptable damage to the ball.

    · For the purpose of this Law, unacceptable damage is any change that is greater than normal
         wear and tear caused by the ball striking the uncovered wooden surface of the blade

5.5­ Contact with the Ball

Contact between the ball and any of:

                   a) The bat itself
                   b) The batter's hand holding the bat
                   c) Any part of the glove worn on the batter's hand holding the bat shall be

                        regarded as the ball striking or touching the bat or being struck by the bat.

5.6­ Bat Size Limit for Adult Cricket

    a) The overall length of the bat, when the lower portion of the handle is inserted, shall not be
         more than 38 inches / 96.52 cm.

    b) The blade of the bat shall not exceed the following dimensions:
    c) Width: 4.25 inches / 10.8 cm
    d) Depth: 2.64 inches / 6.7 cm
    e) Edges: 1.56 inches / 4.0cm.
                                                                                                              21

Law 6 - THE PITCH

6.1 ­ Area of Pitch

The pitch is a rectangular area of the ground 22 yards/20.12 m/66 feet in length and 10 ft/3.05 m in
width. It is bounded at either end by the bowling creases and on either side by imaginary lines, one
each side of the imaginary line joining the centers of the two middle stumps, each parallel to it and 5
ft/1.52 m from it. If the pitch is next to an artificial pitch which is closer than 5 ft/1.52 m from the
middle stumps, the pitch on that side will extend only to the junction of the two surfaces

6.2 ­ Fitness of Pitch to play

The umpires shall be the sole judges of the fitness of the pitch for play.

6.2 ­ Selection and preparation

6.2.1 DCL Scheduling committee assigns grounds where game is to be conducted, no team must
change the venue / pitch without written consent by DCL.

6.2.2 Teams must carry blowers, brooms, mops or towels to clear pitch of any debris or rocks or
water from the pitch. The materials used must not damage the pitch.

6.2.3 When game is played from both ends (Leather Ball), bowling team always decides which end to
start the innings.

6.2.4 When game is played from one side and there is no clear indication or tradition of which end to
start, and both teams dispute on preferred end and are not in agreement with no obvious reason for
dispute (like Glare or sunset) , Second toss is to be taken place to decide on batting end and bowling
end for entire game. First Toss is for Batting or Bowling decision.

Law 7 - THE CREASES

7.1 ­ The Creases

The positions of bowling crease, a popping crease and two return creases shall be marked by white
lines (tapes or Chalk), as set out in next 3 clauses at each end of the pitch (See photo below).

7.2 ­ The bowling crease

The bowling crease, which is the back edge of the crease marking, is the line that marks the end of
the pitch, as in clause 6.1. It shall be 8 ft 9 inches/2.64 meters in length.

7.3 ­ The popping crease

The popping crease, which is the back edge of the crease marking, shall be at right angles to the
popping crease at a distance of 4 ft 4 in/1.32 meters either side of the imaginary line joining the
centers of the two middle stumps. Each return crease shall be marked from the popping crease to
minimum of 8 ft/2.44 m behind it and shall be considered to be unlimited length
                                                                                                              22

7.4 ­ The Return crease

The return crease, which are the inside edges of the crease markings, shall be at right angles to the
popping crease at a distance of 4 ft 4 in/1.32 m either side of the imaginary line joining the centers
of the two middle stumps. Each return crease shall be marked from the popping crease to a
minimum of 8 ft/2.44 m behind it and shall be considered to be unlimited in length.

7.5 ­ Additional Crease Markings

As a guideline to the umpire for the calling of wide on the offside, the crease marking is 35 inches
from middle stump or 17 inches from return crease.

Law 8 - THE WICKETS

8.1 ­ Description, width and pitching

8.1.1 Each team must carry metal-base spring wickets to the field. The ball hitting the metal base of
the stumps will be considered as hitting the wickets.
8.1.2 Two sets of wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each other in the centers of the
bowling creases. Each set shall be 9 in/22.86 cm wide
8.1.3 The tops of the stumps shall be 28 in/71.12 cm above the playing surface and shall be dome
shaped except for the bail grooves.
8.1.4 Teams are directed not to keep any other items like water bottle (s), discarded clothing of fielders
or batters on the metal base of the wickets.

8.2 ­ Bails

Bails are not mandatory and can be used during game if available at both ends, however if bails keep
falling umpires must remove them from both ends.
If Bails are removed in the first attempt, all you need to just touch the stumps again with the ball.
                                                                                                          23

Each team must carry set of stumps and bails for the game. Teams forgetting to carry stumps will be
treated as late arrival and docking of overs penalty will be applied for the time lost.

Law 11 - THE INTERVAL

11.1 ­ The Interval

11.1.1 The following shall be classified as intervals.

a) Intervals between innings
b) A drinks interval during innings

11.1.2 Only these intervals shall be considered as scheduled breaks.

11.2 ­ Duration of Intervals

11.2.1 There shall be an interval between innings (Refer table below), taken from the call of time
before the interval until the call of Play on resumption after the interval. If first innings is delayed
Umpires shall be sole judge to reduce the interval time. Both umpires must agree on interval and
teams must comply

              Game Type                                               Break Time
                                                                      10 Minutes
T20 Game                                                              15 Minutes
30 Over Game                                                          40 Minutes
40 Over Game

11.5 ­ Interval for Drinks

11.5.1 There shall be drinks interval taken at the midpoint of each innings (refer table below)

Game Type                     Interval at Over                   Time for Drinks Interval
T20                           At 10th over (if wicket is down    2 Minutes 30 Seconds
                              between 9.1 and 9.5 then
30 Over                       break at fall of wicket or injury  3 Minutes
                              after 9th over)
40 Over                       At 15th over (if wicket is down    3 Minutes each
                              between 14.1 and 14.5 then
                              break at fall of wicket or injury
                              after 14th over)
                              At 15th and 30th over (if wicket
                              is down between 14.1/29.1
                              and 14.5/29.5 then break at
                              fall of wicket or injury after
                              14th or 29th over)

11.5.1.1 The following applies for the drinks break:

a) No Practice is allowed
                                                                                                              24

    b) Following a lengthy delay or interruption prior to the drinks break, the Umpire may, at
         his/her discretion cancel all remaining drinks break for the match

    c) An individual player may be given drink either on the boundary edge or at the fall of wicket
         on the field provided that no playing time is wasted. No other drinks shall be taken onto the
         field without permission of umpires.

11.6. Agreement to forgo drinks intervals

At any time during the match, the captains may agree to forgo the drinks intervals. The umpires shall
be informed of the decision. When play is in progress, the batters at the wicket may deputize for
their captain in making an agreement to forgo a drinks interval in that session.

Law 12 ­ START OF PLAY AND PENALTIES

12.1 ­ Game Time

All games must start on scheduled time, Teams must be present on field minimum 15 minutes prior
to scheduled time to setup game. Team late on field(compared to the actual game start time) will be
penalized with reduced overs per Law 12.3. Only team/s late on ground will be penalized with
reduced over.

12.2 ­ Practice before the Game

Teams can practice before start of game if and only if the setup of the field (Boundary/30 Yards
cones, Crease markings) is complete, Delayed start of game due to ground not ready could result in
reduced over game for both teams.

12.3 ­ Penalty for late team

If the team does not have 8 players on the field at the scheduled start time of the game, penalty for
taking the field late are as follow, if the team takes the field:

         a) Between minute 1 and minute 15 of scheduled start time: Deduct 2 overs.

         b) After 15 minutes from Scheduled start time and before 30 mins of the schedule start
         time: Deduct 5 overs.

         c) After 30 minutes of scheduled start time, give a grace period of 15 more minutes for the
         other team to show up.

         d) If they don't, after 45 minutes from scheduled start time, the waiting team will get a
         walk-over and 4 points

Note:

 Both umpires to use cell phone time to make the judgement.
 Each bowler can bowl maximum of 4 overs in DCL /DLCL T20 overs  Each bowler can bowl a
maximum of 6 overs in DLCL 30 Overs.
 Each bowler can bowl a maximum of 8 overs in DLCL 40 Overs.
                                                                                                              25

 Both teams must carry cones and stumps, failure to have them at start of game will be treated as
team not available to play and penalty shall apply per late team.

Example for penalized DCL T20 game: TEAM A came on time, TEAM B came 30 minutes late, got
penalized for 5 overs. Batting TEAM B power play will remain 6 overs for T20 and for 30 overs and 40
overs refer to the above table in law 28.7. TEAM A bowlers can use 4 bowlers bowling full quota of
overs allowed as mentioned above.

12.4 ­ Minimum Over Rates

Minimum over rate to be achieved in all matches shall be 14 overs per hour. Umpires shall reduce
breaks if over rate is not achieved.

Law 13 ­ INNINGS

13.1 ­ Number of Innings

13.1.1 A match shall be one innings for each side.

13.2 ­ Alternate innings

Each side shall take their innings alternately

13.3 ­ Completed innings

A side's innings is to be considered as completed if any of the following applies 13.3.1 the side is all
out.

13.3.2 at the fall of a wicket or the retirement of a batter, further balls remain to be bowled but no
further batter is available to come in.

13.3.3 the prescribed number of overs have been bowled to the batting side.

13.4 ­ THE TOSS

The captains shall toss a coin for the choice of innings, on the field of play and under the supervision
of the Umpire/s, not earlier than 30 minutes, nor later than 15 minutes before the scheduled Note,
however, the provisions of clause 1.3 (Captain). Also, if Umpires are late Captains can toss on their
own and inform umpire about toss. Toss is mandatory irrespective if team arrives late, no awarding
of toss applies in DCL playing conditions.

13.5 ­ Decision to be notified

As soon as the toss is completed, the captain of the side winning the toss shall decide whether to bat
or to field immediately and shall notify the opposing captain and the umpires of this decision. Once
notified, the decision cannot be changed
                                                                                                              26

13.6 ­ Duration of Match

13.6.1 All matches will consist of one innings per side, each innings being limited to a maximum of
league your team is signed for (20 Overs for T20, 30 Overs for 30 Overs and 40 Overs for 40 over
league)

13.6.4 Only Finals shall have two reserve day allocated for rescheduling game. No other matches
shall have a reserve day allocated. If clear champion cannot be determined after 2 rescheduled days,
shared champions shall be declared.

13.6.5 If the reserve day is allocated, every effort will be made to complete the match on the
scheduled day with any necessary reduction in overs taking place and only if the minimum number
of overs necessary to constitute a match cannot be bowled on the scheduled day will the match be
completed on the reserve day.

13.6.6 If the match has started on the scheduled day and overs are subsequently reduced following
an interruption, but no further play is possible, the new game shall start on the reserve day.

13.7 ­ Length of Innings

13.7.1 Uninterrupted Matches.

13.7.1.1 Each team shall bat for allowed overs for league (20 Overs for T20, 30 Overs for 30 Overs
and 40 Overs for 40 over league) unless all out earlier.

13.7.1.2 If the team fielding first fails to bowl the required number of overs by the scheduled time
for cessation of the first innings, play shall continue until the required number of overs has been
bowled. The interval shall not be extended, and the second session shall commence at the
scheduled time. The team batting second shall receive its full quota of 20 overs irrespective of the
number of overs it bowled in the scheduled time for the cessation of the first innings provided game
still has allotted time, if allotted time is complete, game must be stopped immediately and D/L rule
must be applied get result of the game .

13.7.1.3 If the team batting first is dismissed in less than 20 overs, the team batting second shall be
entitled to bat for 20 overs.

13.7.1.4 If the team fielding second fails to bowl 20 overs by the scheduled cessation time, the hours
of play shall not be extended, and D/L method must be applied to determine the winner. No Game
should extend beyond allotted time.

If Delay caused due to Fielding team ­ 5 Penalty runs awarded to batting side
If Delay caused due to Batter ­ 5 Penalty runs awarded to fielding side

13.7.2 Delayed or Interrupted Matches.
13.7.2.1 Delay or Interruption to the Innings of the Team Batting First

13.7.2.1.1 When playing time has been lost the revised number of overs to be bowled in the match
shall be based on a rate of 14 overs per hour in the total remaining time available for play.
                                                                                                              27

13.7.2.1.2 The revision of the number of overs should ensure, whenever possible, that both teams
have the opportunity of batting for the same number of overs. The team batting second shall not bat
for a greater number of overs than the first team unless the latter completed its innings in less than
its allocated overs. To constitute a match, a minimum of 5 overs (for T20)/ 8 Overs (for 30 Overs)/
15 Overs (for 40 Over) have to be bowled to the side batting second, subject to a result not being
achieved earlier.

13.7.2.1.3 As soon as the total minutes of playing time remaining is less than the completed overs
faced by Team 1 multiplied by 4.25, then the first innings is terminated and the provisions of
13.7.2.2 below take effect.

13.7.2.1.4 A fixed time will be specified for the commencement of the interval, and also the close of
play for the match, by applying a rate of 14 overs per hour. When calculating the length of playing
time available for the match, or the length of either innings, the timing and duration of all relative
delays, extensions in playing hours, interruptions in play, and intervals will be taken into
consideration. This calculation must not cause the match to finish earlier than the original or
rescheduled time for cessation of play on the final scheduled day for play. The original scheduled
time shall not be extended.

13.7.2.1.5 If the team fielding first fails to bowl the revised number of overs by the specified time,
play shall continue until the required number of overs have been bowled or the innings is
completed.

13.7.2.2 Delay or Interruption to the innings of the Team Batting Second.

13.7.2.2.1 When playing time has been lost and, as a result, it is not possible for the team batting
second to have the opportunity of receiving its allocated, or revised allocation of overs in the playing
time available, the number of overs shall be reduced at a rate of 14 overs per hour in respect of the
lost playing time. Should the calculations result in a fraction of an over the fraction shall be ignored.

13.7.2.2.2 In addition, should the innings of the team batting first have been completed prior to the
scheduled, or re-scheduled time for the commencement of the interval, then any calculation relating
to the revision of overs shall not be effective until an amount of time equivalent to that by which the
second innings started early has elapsed.

13.7.2.2.3 To constitute a match, a minimum of 5 overs (for T20)/ 8 Overs (for 30 Overs)/ 15 Overs
(for 40 Over) have to be bowled to the team batting second subject to a result not being achieved
earlier.

13.7.2.2.4 The team batting second shall not bat for a greater number of overs than the first team
unless the latter completed its innings in less than its allocated overs.

13.7.2.2.5 A fixed time will be specified for the close of play by applying a rate of 14 overs per hour.
The timing and duration of all relative delays, No extensions in playing hours and interruptions in
play will be taken into consideration in specifying this time.

13.7.2.2.6 If the team fielding second fails to bowl the revised overs by the scheduled or re-
scheduled close of play. There should be no extended time beyond scheduled time allowed.
                                                                                                              28

13.9 ­ Number of overs per Bowler

13.9.1 No bowler shall bowl more than 4 overs (for T20)/6 overs (for 30 Over)/ 8 Overs (40 Over) in
an innings.

13.9.2 In a delayed or interrupted match where the overs are reduced for both teams or for the
team bowling second;

13.9.3 for innings of rescheduled length of at least 10 overs, no bowler may bowl more than one-
fifth of the total overs allowed. Where the total overs is not divisible by 5, one additional over shall
be allowed to the maximum number per bowler necessary to make up the balance.

13.9.5 In the event of a bowler breaking down and being unable to complete an over, the remaining
balls will be allowed by another bowler. Such part of an over will count as a full over only in so far as
each bowler's limit is concerned.

13.9.6 The scoreboard shall show the total number of overs bowled and the number of overs bowled
by each bowler.

Law 16 ­ THE RESULT

16.1 A Win

16.1.1 Unless the winner is determined by DLS (see clause 16.4) the side which has scored in its one
innings a total of runs in excess of that scored by the opposing side in its one completed innings shall
win the match. See clause 13.3 (Completed innings). Note also clause 16.4 (Winning hit or extras).

16.1.2 Save for circumstances where a match is awarded to a team as a consequence of the
opposing team's refusal to play (clause 16.2), a result can be achieved only if both teams have had
the opportunity of batting for at least 5 overs (for T20)/ 8 Overs (for 30 Overs)/ 15 Overs (for 40
Over), unless one team has been all out in less than minimum overs or unless the team batting
second scores enough runs to win in less than minimum overs.

16.1.3 Save for circumstances where a match is awarded to a team as a consequence of the
opposing team's refusal to play (clause 16.2), all matches in which both teams have not had an
opportunity of batting for a minimum 5 overs (for T20)/ 8 Overs (for 30 Overs)/ 15 Overs (for 40
Over), shall be declared a No Result.

16.2 Umpire awarding a match

16.2.1 A match shall be lost by a side which either 16.2.1.1 concedes defeat or

16.2.1.2 in the opinion of both umpires refuses to play and both umpires shall award the match to
the other side.

16.2.2 If an umpire considers that an action by any player or players might constitute a refusal by
either side to play then the umpires together shall inform the DCL Management of this fact. The DCL
Management shall together with the umpires ascertain the cause of the action. If the DCL
Management, after due consultation with the umpires, then decides that this action does constitute
a refusal to play by one side, he/she shall so inform the captain of that side. If the captain persists in
the action DCL Management shall award the match in accordance with clause 16.2.1.2 above.
                                                                                                              29

16.2.3 If action as in clause 16.2.2 above takes place after play has started and does not constitute a
refusal to play the delay or interruption in play shall be dealt with in the same manner as provided
for in clauses 13.7.2 (Delayed and Interrupted Matches) and 11.4 (Changing agreed times for
intervals) above.

Note: In addition to the consequences of any refusal to play prescribed under this clause, any such
refusal, whether temporary or final, may result in disciplinary action being taken against the captain
and team responsible under the Dallas Cricket League Code of Conduct.

16.3 All other matches ­ A Tie or No Result

16.3.1 A Tie

16.3.1.1 The result of a match shall be a tie when both innings have been completed and the scores
are equal.

16.3.1.2 If the match is tied a Super Over is played. If the Super Over is a tie, then subsequent Super
Overs shall be played if time permits. Unless exceptional circumstances arise, there shall be two
number of Super Overs played to achieve a result.

16.3.2 No Result See clause 16.1.3 above.

16.4 Calculation of the Target Score

16.4.1 Interrupted Matches

16.4.1.1 If, due to suspension of play after the start of the match, the number of overs in the innings
of either team has to be revised to a lesser number than originally allotted (minimum overs), then a
revised target score (to win) should be set for the number of overs which the team batting second
will have the opportunity of facing. This revised target is to be calculated using DLS. The target set
will always be a whole number and one run less will constitute a Tie.

16.4.2 Prematurely Terminated Matches

16.4.2.1 If the innings of the side batting second is suspended (with minimum overs bowled) and it is
not possible for the match to be resumed, the match will be decided by comparison with the DLS
`Par Score' determined at the instant of the suspension using DLS. If the score is equal to the par
score, the match is a Tie. Otherwise, the result is a victory, or defeat, by the margin of runs by which
the score exceeds, or falls short of, the Par Score.

Official DCL approved application to calculate DLS par score is going to be available on the DCL
portal sometime soon during the summer season. Until then, the existing recommended app from
the old portal can be used, if that doesn't work call the DCL operations.

16.5 Winning hit or extras

16.5.1 As soon as a result is reached as defined in clauses 16.1, 16.2 or 16.3.1, the match is at an
end. Nothing that happens thereafter, except as in clause 41.17.2 (Penalty runs), shall be regarded
as part of it. Note also clause 16.8.
                                                                                                              30

16.5.2 The side batting last will have scored enough runs to win only if its total of runs is sufficient
without including any runs completed by the batters before the completion of a catch, or the
obstruction of a catch, from which the striker could be dismissed.

16.5.3 If a boundary is scored before the batters have completed sufficient runs to win the match,
the whole of the boundary allowance shall be credited to the side's total and, in the case of a hit by
the bat, to the striker's score.

16.6 Statement of result

If the side batting last wins the match without losing all its wickets, the result shall be stated as a win
by the number of wickets still then to fall, unless clause 16.4.2.1 (Prematurely Terminated Matches)
applies.

If, without having scored a total of runs in excess of the total scored by the opposing side, the
innings of the side batting last has been completed, but as the result of an award of 5 Penalty runs
its total of runs is then sufficient to win, the result shall be stated as a win to that side by Penalty
runs.

If the side fielding last wins the match, the result shall be stated as a win by runs.

If the match is decided by one side conceding defeat or refusing to play, the result shall be stated as
Match Conceded or Match Awarded, as the case may be.

16.7 Correctness of result

Any decision as to the correctness of the scores shall be the responsibility of the umpires. To update
correct scorecard after the game, teams can update the scorecard on Dallascricket.org portal.
Whenever scorecard is updated the portal will send a notification email and it is the responsibility of
the opposite team to check the updates and make sure of the accuracy.

16.8 Mistakes in scoring

16.8.1 To avoid any mistakes while scoring the league strongly recommends cooperation between
the two playing teams and also both the umpires. As a best practice always check the score after
each and every over and any mistakes must be corrected at the earliest possible time with the
agreement from the umpires.

16.9 Result not to be changed

Once the umpires have agreed with the scorers the correctness of the scores at the conclusion of
the match the result cannot thereafter be changed. The only scenario where the result could be
overridden is due to a disciplinary ticket resolution.

16.10 Competition Format

Refer to Seasons/Ranking/Divisions information on the portal

16.10.1 Points
The following points system will apply:
                                                                                                              31

Preliminary Matches - League Phase

In a competition at league level following points system shall apply:

Win ...................... 4 points

Tie or No Result ... 2 points

Loss ...................... 0 points

In the event of teams finishing on equal points in the points table at the end of the League, the
position of the teams will be decided as under:

" The team with the highest net run rate.
" If still equal, the team with the greatest number of wins.
" In the unlikely event that Teams cannot be separated by the above, this will be done by drawing
lots.

A team's net run rate is calculated by deducting from the average runs per over scored by that team
throughout the competition, the average runs per over scored against that team throughout the
competition.

In the event of a team being all out in less than its full quota, the calculation of its net run rate shall
be based on the full quota of overs to which it would be entitled and not on the number of overs in
which the team was dismissed.

Only those matches where results are achieved will count for the purposes of net run rate
calculations. Where a match is abandoned, but a result is achieved under DLS System, actual scores
of the game will be entered to reduce complexities in calculating the net run rate.

At knock out stage: In the event of a result not being obtained and further the match cannot be
decided by DL System, for matches up to and including the semifinals the result will be decided as
under:

"The team with the greatest number of points in the league stage of the tournament"

"If still equal, the team with the highest net run rate during the league stage of the tournament".

"If still equal then by toss of coin in presence of the umpires".

Law 17 ­ THE OVER

17.1 Number of balls

The ball shall be bowled from each end alternately in overs of 6 valid balls.

17.2 Start of an over

An over has started when the bowler starts his/her run-up or, if there is no run-up, starts his/her
action for the first delivery of that over.
                                                                                                              32

17.3 Validity of balls

17.3.1 A ball shall not count as one of the 6 balls of the over unless it is delivered, even though, as in
clause 38.3 (Non-striker leaving his/her ground early) a batter may be dismissed, or some other
incident occurs without the ball having been delivered.

17.3.2 A ball delivered by the bowler shall not count as one of the 6 balls of the over

17.3.2.1 if it is called dead, or is to be considered dead, before the striker has had an opportunity to
play it. See clause 20.6 (Dead ball; ball counting as one of over).

17.3.2.2 if it is called dead in the circumstances of clause 20.4.2.6. Note also the special provisions of
clause 20.4.2.5. (Umpire calling and signaling Dead ball).

17.3.2.3 if it is a No ball. See clause 21 (No ball). 17.3.2.4 if it is a Wide. See clause 22 (Wide ball).

17.3.2.5 when any of clauses 24.4 (Player returning without permission), 28.2 (Fielding the ball), 41.4
(Deliberate attempt to distract striker), or 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, deception or obstruction of a
batter) is applied.

17.3.3 Any deliveries other than those listed in clause 17.3.1 and 17.3.2 shall be known as valid balls.
Only valid balls shall count towards the 6 balls of the over.

17.4 Call of Over

When 6 valid balls have been bowled and when the ball becomes dead, the umpire shall call Over
before leaving the wicket. See also clause 20.3 (Call of Over or Time).

17.5 Umpire miscounting

17.5.1 If the umpire miscounts the number of valid balls, the over as counted by the umpire shall
stand.

17.5.2 If, having miscounted, the umpire allows an over to continue after 6 valid balls have been
bowled, he/she may subsequently call Over when the ball becomes dead after any delivery, even if
that delivery is not a valid ball.

17.5.3 Whenever possible, the third umpire scorer shall liaise with the umpires regarding the over
has been miscounted.

17.6 Bowler changing ends

A bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as desired, provided he/she does not bowl two
overs consecutively, nor bowl parts of each of two consecutive overs, in the same innings.

17.7 Finishing an over

17.7.1 Other than at the end of an innings, a bowler shall finish an over in progress unless
incapacitated or suspended under these Playing Conditions.
                                                                                                              33

17.7.2 If for any reason, other than the end of an innings, an over is left uncompleted at the start of
an interval or interruption, it shall be completed on resumption of play.

17.8 Bowler incapacitated or suspended during an over

If for any reason a bowler is incapacitated while running up to deliver the first ball of an over, or is
incapacitated during an over, the umpire shall call and signal Dead ball. If a bowler is incapacitated
or suspended during an over, another bowler shall complete the over from the same end, provided
that he/she does not bowl two overs consecutively, nor bowl parts of each of two consecutive overs,
in that innings.

Law 18 SCORING RUNS

18.1 A run

The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored

18.1.1 so often as the batters, at any time while the ball is in play, have crossed and made good their
ground from end to end.

18.1.2 when a boundary is scored. See clause 19 (Boundaries).

18.1.3 when Penalty runs are awarded. See clause18.6.

18.2 Runs disallowed and runs not scored

Wherever in these Playing Conditions provision is made for the scoring of runs or awarding of
penalties, such runs and penalties will be subject to any provisions that may be applicable for a run
to be disallowed or a run not to be scored or for the non-award of penalties.

When runs are disallowed, the one run penalty for No ball or Wide shall stand and 5 run penalties
shall be allowed, except for Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging to the
fielding side).

18.3 Short runs

18.3.1 A run is short if a batter fails to make good his/her ground in turning for a further run.

18.3.2 Although a short run shortens the succeeding one, the latter if completed shall not be
regarded as short. A striker setting off for the first run from in front of the popping crease may do so
also without penalty.

18.4 Unintentional short runs

Except in the circumstances of clause 18.5,

18.4.1 if either batter runs a short run, the umpire concerned shall, unless a boundary is scored, call
and signal short run as soon as the ball becomes dead and that run shall not be scored.
                                                                                                              34

18.4.2 if either batter run short, a boundary is scored the umpire concerned shall disregard the short
running and shall not call or signal short run unless the boundary is a result of an overthrow or
willful act of the fielder (see clause 19.8 Overthrow or willful act of fielder).

18.4.3 if both batters run short in one and the same run, this shall be regarded as only one short run.

18.4.4 if more than one run is short then, subject to clauses 18.4.2 and 18.4.3, all runs called as short
shall not be scored.

18.4.5 if there has been more than one short run, the umpire shall inform the scorers as to the
number of runs to be recorded.

18.5 Deliberate short runs

18.5.1 If either umpire considers that one or both batters deliberately ran short at that umpire's
end, the umpire concerned shall, when the ball is dead, call and signal Short run and inform the
other umpire of what has occurred and apply clause 18.5.2.

18.5.2 The bowler's end umpire shall

         - disallow all runs to the batting side
         - return any not out batter to his/her original end
         - signal No ball or Wide to the scorers, if applicable
         - repeat the Short run signal to the scorers
         - award 5 Penalty runs to the fielding side
         - award any other 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for Penalty runs under clause

              28.3 (Protective helmets belonging to the fielding side)
         - inform the scorers as to the number of runs to be recorded, and
         - inform the captain of the fielding side and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the

              batting side of the reason for this action.

18.6 Runs awarded for penalties

Runs shall be awarded for penalties under clauses 18.5 (Deliberate short runs), 21 (No ball), 22
(Wide ball), 24.4 (Player returning without permission), 26.4 (Penalties for contravention), 28.2
(Fielding the ball), 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging to the fielding side) 41 (Unfair play) and 42
(Players' conduct). Note, however, the restrictions on the award of Penalty runs in clauses 23.3 (Leg
byes not to be awarded), 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging to the fielding side) and 34 (Hit the ball
twice).

18.7 Runs scored for boundaries

Runs shall be scored for boundary allowances under clause 19 (Boundaries).
                                                                                                              35

18.8 Runs scored when a batter is dismissed

When a batter is dismissed, any runs for penalties awarded to either side shall stand. No other runs
shall be credited to the batting side, except as follows.

18.8.1 If a batter is dismissed Obstructing the field, the batting side shall also score any runs
completed before the offence.

If, however, the obstruction or distraction prevented a catch being made, no runs other than
penalties shall be scored.

18.8.2 If a batter is dismissed Run out, the batting side shall also score any runs completed before
the wicket was fairly broken.

18.9 Runs scored when the ball becomes dead other than at the fall of a wicket

When the ball becomes dead for any reason other than the fall of a wicket, or is called dead by an
umpire, unless there is specific provision otherwise in these Playing Conditions, any runs for
penalties awarded to either side shall be scored. Note however the provisions of clauses 23.3 (Leg
byes not to be awarded) and 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging to the fielding side).

Additionally, the batting side shall be credited with all runs completed by the batters before the
incident or call of Dead ball and the run in progress if the batters had already crossed at the instant
of the incident or call of Dead ball. Note specifically, however, the provisions of clause 41.5.8
(Deliberate distraction, deception or obstruction of batter).

18.10 Crediting of runs scored

Unless stated otherwise in these Playing Conditions,

18.10.1 if the ball is struck by the bat, all runs scored by the batting side shall be credited to the
striker, except for the following:

         - an award of 5 Penalty runs, which shall be scored as Penalty runs
         - the one run penalty for a No ball, which shall be scored as a No balls extra.

18.10.2 if the ball is not struck by the bat, runs shall be scored as Penalty runs, Byes, Leg byes, No
ball extras or Wides as the case may be. If Byes or Leg byes accrue from a No ball, only the one run
penalty for No ball shall be scored as such, and the remainder as Byes or Leg byes as appropriate.

18.10.3 the bowler shall be debited with:

         - all runs scored by the striker
         - all runs scored as No ball extras
         - all runs scored as Wides.
                                                                                                              36

18.11 Batter returning to original end

18.11.1 When the striker is dismissed in any of the circumstances in clauses 18.11.1.1 to 18.11.1.7
18.11.1.5, the not out batter shall return to his/her original end.

         18.11.1.1 Bowled.

         18.11.1.2 Stumped.

         18.11.1.3 Hit the ball twice.

         18.11.1.4 LBW.

         18.11.1.5 Hit wicket.

         18.11.1.6 Caught

         18.11.1.7 Obstructing the field, where the obstruction or distraction prevents the striker
         being out Caught.

18.11.2 The batters shall return to their original ends in any of the cases of clauses 18.11.2.1 to
18.11.2.3.

18.11.2.1 A boundary is scored unless as a result of an overthrow or willful act of a fielder (see
clause 19.8).

18.11.2.2 Runs are disallowed for any reason.

18.11.2.3 the batters at the wicket decide to do so, under clause 41.5 (Deliberate distraction,
deception or obstruction of batter).

18.12 Law Batter returning to wicket he/she has left

18.12.1 When a batter is dismissed in any of the ways in clauses 18.12.1.1 to 18.12.1.2, the not out
batter shall return to the wicket he/she has left but only if the batters had not already crossed at the
instant of the incident causing the dismissal. If runs are to be disallowed, however, the not out
batter shall return to his/her original end.

18.12.1.1 Obstructing the field, where the obstruction or distraction does not prevent the striker
being out Caught.

18.12.1.2 Run out

18.12.2 If, while a run is in progress, the ball becomes dead for any reason other than the dismissal
of a batter, the batters shall return to the wickets they had left, but only if they had not already
crossed in running when the ball became dead. If, however, any of the circumstances of clauses
18.11.2.1 to 18.11.2.3 apply, the batters shall return to their original ends.
                                                                                                              37

Law 19 BOUNDARIES

19.1 Determining the boundary of the field of play

19.1.1 Before the toss, the umpires shall determine the boundary of the field of play, which shall be
fixed for the duration of the match. Teams are recommended to use flags instead of cones for
boundary.
19.1.3 The aim shall be to maximize the size of the playing area at each venue. With respect to the
size of the boundaries, no boundary shall be longer than 90 yards (270 feet / 82.29 meters), and no
boundary should be shorter than 57 yards (171 feet / 52.12 meters), unless field has no space to set
boundary.

19.2 Identifying and marking the boundary

19.2.1 All boundaries must be designated by a Flags, or tall cones - visible object of a minimum
standard as authorized by the DCL.
19.2.2 If the boundary is marked by means of an object that is in contact with the ground the
boundary will be the edge of the grounded part of the object which is nearest the pitch.

19.2.3 Where there is no white line or object providing continuous marking, objects such as flags,
posts or boards may be used to mark specific points on the boundary. The boundary shall be the
imaginary straight line on the ground joining the two nearest marked points.
19.2.4 An obstacle within the field of play shall not be regarded as a boundary unless so determined
by the umpires before the toss.
19.2.5 If an unauthorized person enters the playing arena and handles the ball, the umpire at the
bowler's end shall be the sole judge of whether the boundary allowance should be scored or the ball
                                                                                                              38

be treated as still in play or called dead ball if a batter is liable to be out as a result of the
unauthorized person handling the ball. See also clause 20.4.2.12 (Umpire calling and signaling Dead
ball).

19.2.6 Umpires must always ascertain if the ball has cross boundary as 4 runs or 6 runs, in DCL it's
never fielder's call.

19.3 Restoring the boundary

If a solid object used to mark the boundary is disturbed for any reason, then: 19.3.1 the boundary
shall be considered to be in its original position.

19.3.2 the object shall be returned to its original position as soon as is practicable; if play is taking
place, this shall be as soon as the ball is dead.

19.6 Boundary allowances

19.6.1 6 runs shall be allowed for a boundary 6; and 4 runs for a boundary 4. See also clause 19.7.

19.7 Runs scored from boundaries

19.7.1 A boundary 6 will be scored if and only if the ball has been struck by the bat and is first
grounded beyond the boundary without having been in contact with the ground within the field of
play. This shall apply even if the ball has previously touched a fielder.

19.7.2 A boundary 4 will be scored when a ball that is grounded beyond the boundary

         - whether struck by the bat or not, was first grounded within the boundary, or

         - has not been struck by the bat.

19.7.3 When a boundary is scored, the batting side, except in the circumstances of clause 19.8, shall
be awarded whichever is the greater of

         19.7.3.1 the allowance for the boundary

         19.7.3.2 the runs completed by the batters together with the run in progress if they had
         already crossed at the instant the boundary is scored.

19.7.4 When the runs in clause 19.7.3.2 exceed the boundary allowance they shall replace the
boundary

allowance for the purposes of clause 18.12.
19.7.5 The scoring of Penalty runs by either side is not affected by the scoring of a boundary

19.8 Overthrow or willful act of fielder

If the boundary results from an overthrow or from the willful act of a fielder, the runs scored shall be

         - any runs for penalties awarded to either side
                                                                                                              39

         - and the allowance for the boundary
         - and the runs completed by the batters, together with the run in progress if they had

              already crossed at the instant of the throw or act.

When the throw from the fielder hits the concrete edge or side of the pitch and rolls away, still the
ball is in play.

Clause 18.12.2 (Batter returning to wicket he/she has left) shall apply as from the instant of the
throw or act.

Law 20 DEAD BALL

20.1 Ball is dead

20.1.1 The ball becomes dead when

         20.1.1.1 it is finally settled in the hands of the wicketkeeper or of the bowler.

         20.1.1.2 a boundary is scored. See clause 19.7 (Runs scored from boundaries).

         20.1.1.3 a batter is dismissed. The ball will be deemed to be dead from the instant of the
         incident causing the dismissal.

         20.1.1.4 whether played or not it becomes trapped between the bat and person of a batter
         or between items of his/her clothing or equipment.

         20.1.1.5 whether played or not it lodges in the clothing or equipment of a batter or the
         clothing of an umpire.

         20.1.1.6 there is an award of Penalty runs under either of clauses 24.4 (Player returning
         without permission) or 28.2 (Fielding the ball). The ball shall not count as one of the over.

         20.1.1.7 there is a contravention of clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging to the fielding
         side).

         20.1.1.8 the match is concluded in any of the ways stated in clause 12.6 (Conclusion of
         match).

20.1.2 The ball shall be considered to be dead when it is clear to the bowler's end umpire that the
fielding side and both batters at the wicket have ceased to regard it as in play.

20.2 Ball finally settled

Whether the ball is finally settled or not is a matter for the umpire alone to decide

20.3 Call of Over or Time

Neither the call of Over, nor the call of Time is to be made until the ball is dead
                                                                                                              40

20.4 Umpire calling and signaling Dead ball

20.4.1 When the ball has become dead under clause 20.1, the bowler's end umpire may call and
signal Dead ball if it is necessary to inform the players.

20.4.2 Where either umpire is required to call and signal Dead ball under 20.4.2.1 to 20.4.2.14, the
ball will be considered to be dead at the instant of the incident causing the ball to become dead.
However, where the playing conditions specifically provides for the call to be delayed, so as not to
disadvantage the non-offending side, under clause 34.4 (Runs permitted from the ball lawfully struck
more than once), clause 41.2.1 (Unfair actions) and clause 42.1.2 (Unacceptable conduct), the ball
will be considered to be dead at the point of the call.

Either umpire shall call and signal Dead ball when

20.4.2.1 intervening in a case of unfair play.

20.4.2.2 a possibly serious injury to a player or umpire occurs.

20.4.2.3 leaving his/her normal position for consultation.

20.4.2.4 one or both bails fall from the striker's wicket before the striker has had the opportunity of
playing the ball.

20.4.2.5 the striker is not ready for the delivery of the ball and, if the ball is delivered, makes no
attempt to play it. Provided the umpire is satisfied that the striker had adequate reason for not
being ready, the ball shall not count as one of the over.

20.4.2.6 the striker is distracted by any noise or movement or in any other way while preparing to
receive or receiving a delivery. This shall apply whether the source of the distraction is within the
match or outside it. Note also clause 20.4.2.7. The ball shall not count as one of the over.

20.4.2.7 there is an instance of a deliberate attempt to distract under either of clauses 41.4
(Deliberate attempt to distract striker) or 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, deception or obstruction of
batter). The ball shall not count as one of the over.

20.4.2.8 the bowler drops the ball accidentally before delivery.

20.4.2.9 the bowler throws the ball towards the striker's end before entering his/her delivery stride

20.4.2.10 the ball does not leave the bowler's hand for any reason other than an attempt to run out
the non-striker under clause 38.3 (non-striker leaving his/her ground early).

20.4.2.11 satisfied that the ball in play cannot be recovered.

20.4.2.12 he/she considers that either side has been disadvantaged by a person, animal or other
object within the field of play. However, if both umpires consider the ball would have reached the
boundary regardless of the intervention, the boundary should stand (see clause 19.2.4 ­ Identifying
and marking the boundary).

20.4.2.13 the striker attempts to play the ball and no part of his/her person, whether grounded or
raised, remains within the pitch as defined in clause 6.1 (Area of pitch).
                                                                                                              41

20.4.2.14 required to do so under any of the Playing Conditions not included above.

20.5 Ball ceases to be dead

The ball ceases to be dead ­ that is, it comes into play ­ when the bowler starts his/her run-up or, if
there is no run-up, starts his/her bowling action.

20.6 Dead ball not to be revoked

Once the ball is dead, no revoking of any decision can bring the ball back into play for that delivery.

20.7 Dead ball; ball counting as one of over

20.7.1 When a ball which has been delivered is called dead or is to be considered dead then, other
than as in clause 20.7.2,

20.7.1.1 it will not count in the over if the striker has not had an opportunity to play it.

20.7.1.2 unless No ball or Wide ball has been called, it will be a valid ball if the striker has had an
opportunity to play it, except in the circumstances of clauses 20.4.2.6 and 24.4 (Player returning
without permission), 28.2 (Fielding the ball), 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to distract striker) and 41.5
(Deliberate distraction, deception or obstruction of batter).

20.7.2 In clause 20.4.2.5, the ball will not count in the over only if both conditions of not attempting
to play the ball and having an adequate reason for not being ready are met. Otherwise, the delivery
will be a valid ball

See the video to understand more about dead ball: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qy7hTDGI-
qw

Law 21 NO BALL

21.1 Mode of delivery

21.1.1 The umpire shall ascertain whether the bowler intends to bowl right-handed or left-handed,
over or round the wicket, and shall so inform the striker.
                                                                                                              42

It is unfair if the bowler fails to notify the umpire of a change in his/her mode of delivery. In this case
the umpire shall call and signal No ball.

21.1.2 Underarm bowling shall not be permitted.

21.2 Fair delivery ­ the arm

For a delivery to be fair in respect of the arm the ball must not be delivered with an Illegal Bowling
Action.

An Illegal Bowling Action is defined as a bowling action where a bowler's Elbow Extension exceeds
15 degrees, measured from the point at which the bowling arm reaches the horizontal until the
point at which the ball is released (any Elbow Hyperextension shall be discounted for the purposes
of determining an Illegal Bowling Action).

21.3 Ball thrown or delivered underarm ­ action by umpires

21.3.1 If, in the opinion of either umpire, the ball has been thrown (where such mode of delivery
does not correspond to the bowler's normal bowling action) or delivered underarm, he/she shall call
and signal No ball and, when the ball is dead, inform the other umpire of the reason for the call.

The bowler's end umpire shall then

         - warn the bowler, indicating that this is a first and final warning. This warning shall apply to
         that bowler throughout the innings.

         - inform the captain of the fielding side of the reason for this action.

         - inform the batters at the wicket of what has occurred.

21.3.2 If either umpire considers that, in that innings, a further delivery by the same bowler is
thrown (where such mode of delivery does not correspond to the bowler's normal bowling action)
or delivered underarm, he/she shall call and signal No ball and when the ball is dead inform the
other umpire of the reason for the call.

The bowler's end umpire shall then:

- direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling. The over
shall, if applicable, be completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled the previous
over or part thereof nor be allowed to bowl any part of the next over. The bowler thus suspended
shall not bowl again in that innings.

- inform the batters at the wicket and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of the
reason for this action.

21.4 Bowler throwing towards striker's end before delivery

If the bowler throws the ball towards the striker's end before entering the delivery stride, it is not a
No ball and the procedure stated in 21.3 shall not apply. However, the umpire shall call and signal
Dead ball under clause 20.4.2.9.
                                                                                                              43

21.5 Fair delivery ­ the feet

For a delivery to be fair in respect of the feet, in the delivery stride
21.5.1 the bowler's back foot must land within and not touching the return crease appertaining to
his/her stated mode of delivery.
21.5.2 the bowler's front foot must land with some part of the foot, whether grounded or raised

         - on the same side of the imaginary line joining the two middle stumps as the return
              crease described in clause 21.5.1, and

         - behind the popping crease.

The third umpire shall review television replays of the bowler's front foot landing and, if he/she is
satisfied that the second requirement above has not been met, advise the bowler's end umpire who
shall in turn immediately call and signal No ball. See clause 41.8 (Bowling of deliberate front foot No
ball).
Few Examples of No Ball / Fair Delivery:

                                                                                                     Back Foot Raised on Return Crease
                                                                                                                     Fair Delivery

   Back Foot Grounded on
          Return Crease
               No Ball

Fair Delivery  Fair Delivery
                        44

No Ball  Fair Delivery

21.6 Bowler breaking wicket in delivering ball

Either umpire shall call and signal No ball if, other than in an attempt to run out the non-striker
under clause 38.3, the bowler breaks the wicket at any time after the ball comes into play and
before completion of the stride after the delivery stride. This shall include any clothing or other
object that falls from his/her person and breaks the wicket.

21.7 Ball bouncing more than once, rolling along the ground or pitching off the pitch

The umpire shall call and signal No ball if a ball which he/she considers to have been delivered,
without having previously touched bat or person of the striker,

    - bounces more than once
    - or rolls along the ground before it reaches the popping crease.
    - or pitches wholly or partially off the pitch as defined in clause 6.1 (Area of pitch) before it

         reaches the line of the striker's wicket.

21.8 Ball causing the striker to leave the pitch or ball coming to rest in front of
striker's wicket

If a ball delivered by the bowler comes to rest in front of the line of the striker's wicket, or is so far
from the pitch that the striker would need to leave the pitch to attempt to play the ball (see clause
25.6 ­ Striker's right to play the ball) without having previously touched the bat or person of the
striker, the umpire shall call and signal No ball and immediately call and signal Dead ball.

21.9 Fielder intercepting a delivery

If, except in the circumstances of clause 27.3 (Position of wicket-keeper) a ball delivered by the
bowler, makes contact with any part of a fielder's person before it either makes contact with the
striker's bat or person, or it passes the striker's wicket, the umpire shall call and signal No ball and
immediately call and signal Dead ball.
                                                                                                              45
21.10 Ball bouncing overhead height of striker
See clauses 22.1.1.2 and 41.6.1.7.
21.11 Call of No ball for infringement of other Playing Conditions
In addition to the instances above, No ball is to be called and signaled as required by the following
clauses:
Clause 27.3 ­ Position of wicket-keeper
Clause 28.4 ­ Limitation of on side fielders
Clause 28.5 ­ Fielders not to encroach on pitch
Clause 41.6 ­ Bowling of dangerous and unfair short pitched deliveries Clause 41.7 ­ Bowling of
dangerous and unfair non-pitching deliveries Clause 41.8 ­ Bowling of deliberate front foot No ball.

               NO BALL - Leg Side
                      Restriction

                      Maximum of Two
                    Fielders behind the
                    Popping Crease on

                         the Leg Side

      No more than 2 behind Square Leg
                                                                                                              46

21.12 Revoking a call of No ball

An umpire shall revoke the call of No ball if Dead ball is called under any of Laws 20.4.2.4, 20.4.2.5,
20.4.2.6, 20.4.2.8 or 20.4.2.10 (Umpire calling and signaling Dead ball).

21.13 No ball to over-ride Wide

A call of No ball shall over-ride the call of Wide ball at any time. See clauses 22.1 (Judging a Wide)
and 22.2 (Call and signal of Wide ball).

21.14 Ball not dead

The ball does not become dead on the call of No ball.

21.15 Penalty for a No ball

A penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of No ball. Unless the call is revoked, the
penalty shall stand even if a batter is dismissed. It shall be in addition to any other runs scored, any
boundary allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties.

21.16 Runs resulting from a No ball ­ how scored

The one run penalty shall be scored as a No ball extra and shall be debited against the bowler. If
other Penalty runs have been awarded to either side these shall be scored as stated in clause 41.17
(Penalty runs). Any runs completed by the batters or any boundary allowance shall be credited to
the striker if the ball has been struck by the bat; otherwise they shall also be scored as Byes or Leg
byes as appropriate.

21.17 No ball not to count

A No ball shall not count as one of the over. See clause 17.3 (Validity of balls).

21.18 Out from a No ball

When No ball has been called, neither batter shall be out under any of the Playing Conditions except

    · Law 34 (Hit the ball twice),
    · Law 37 (Obstructing the field) or
    · Law 38 (Run out).

21.19 Free Hit

21.19.1 In addition to the above, the delivery following a No ball called (all modes of No ball) shall be
a free hit for whichever batter is facing it. If the delivery for the free hit is not a legitimate delivery
(any kind of No ball or a Wide) then the next delivery will become a free hit for whichever batter is
facing it.

21.19.2 For any free hit, the striker can be dismissed only under the circumstances that apply for a
No ball, even if the delivery for the free hit is called Wide.
                                                                                                              47

21.19.3 Neither field changes nor the exchange of individuals between fielding positions are
permitted for free hit deliveries unless:

21.19.3.1 There is a change of striker (the provisions of clause 41.2 shall apply), or

21.19.3.2 The No ball was the result of a fielding restriction breach, in which case the field may be
changed to the extent of correcting the breach.

21.19.4 For clarity, the bowler can change his/her mode of delivery for the free hit delivery. In such
circumstances clause 21.1 shall apply.

21.19.5 The umpires will signal a free hit by (after the normal No ball signal) extending one arm
straight upwards and moving it in a circular motion.

See the video to understand more about No Ball:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uQ_aQXo8BTM

Law 22 WIDE BALL

22.1 Judging a Wide

22.1.1 If the bowler bowls a ball, not being a No ball, the umpire shall adjudge it a Wide if, according
to the definition in clause 22.1.2

22.1.1.1 the ball passes wide of where the striker is standing, and which also would have passed
wide of the striker standing in a normal batting position.

22.1.1.2 the ball passes above the head height of the striker standing upright at the popping crease.

22.1.2 The ball will be considered as passing wide of the striker unless it is sufficiently within reach
for him to be able to hit it with the bat by means of a normal cricket stroke.

22.1.3 Umpires are instructed to apply very strict and consistent interpretation in regard to this
clause in order to prevent negative bowling wide of the wicket.

22.2 Call and signal of Wide ball

If the umpire adjudges a delivery to be a Wide, he/she shall call and signal Wide ball as soon as the
ball passes the striker's wicket. It shall, however, be considered to have been a Wide from the
instant that the bowler entered his/her delivery stride, even though it cannot be called Wide until it
passes the striker's wicket.

22.3 Revoking a call of Wide ball

22.3.1 The umpire shall revoke the call of Wide ball if there is any contact between the ball and the
striker's bat or person before the ball comes into contact with any fielder.
                                                                                                              48

22.3.2 The umpire shall revoke the call of Wide ball if a delivery is called a No ball. See clause 21.13
(No ball to over-ride Wide).

22.4 Delivery not a Wide

22.4.1 The umpire shall not adjudge a delivery as being a Wide, if the striker, by moving, either
causes the ball to pass wide of him, as defined in clause 22.1.2 or brings the ball sufficiently within
reach to be able to hit it by means of a normal cricket stroke.

22.4.2 The umpire shall not adjudge a delivery as being a Wide if the ball touches the striker's bat or
person, but only as the ball passes the striker.

22.5 Ball not dead

The ball does not become dead on the call of Wide ball.

22.6 Penalty for a Wide

A penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of Wide ball. Unless the call is revoked,
under clause 22.3, this penalty shall stand even if a batter is dismissed and shall be in addition to any
other runs scored, any boundary allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties.

22.7 Runs resulting from a Wide ­ how scored

All runs completed by the batters or a boundary allowance, together with the penalty for the Wide,
shall be scored as Wide balls. Apart from any award of 5 Penalty runs, all runs resulting from a Wide
shall be debited against the bowler.

22.8 Wide not to count

A Wide shall not count as one of the over. See clause 17.3 (Validity of balls).

22.9 Out from a Wide

When Wide ball has been called, neither batter shall be out under any of the Playing Conditions
except clause 35 (Hit wicket), clause 37 (Obstructing the field), clause 38 (Run out) or clause 39
(Stumped).

See the video to understand more about Wide ball:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L0B4APcXGJw

Law 23 BYE AND LEG BYE

23.1 Byes

If the ball, delivered by the bowler, not being a Wide, passes the striker without touching his/her bat
or person, any runs completed by the batters from that delivery, or a boundary allowance, shall be
credited as Byes to the batting side. Additionally, if the delivery is a No ball, the one run penalty for
such a delivery shall be incurred.
                                                                                                              49

23.2 Leg byes

23.2.1 If a ball delivered by the bowler first strikes the person of the striker, runs shall be scored only
if the umpire is satisfied that the striker has

either attempted to play the ball with the bat or tried to avoid being hit by the ball.

23.2.2 If the umpire is satisfied that either of these conditions has been met runs shall be scored as
follows.

23.2.2.1 If there is
either no subsequent contact with the striker's bat or person, or only inadvertent contact with the
striker's bat or person

any runs completed by the batters, or a boundary allowance shall be credited to the striker in the
case of subsequent contact with his/her bat but otherwise to the batting side as in clause 23.2.3.

23.2.2.2 If the striker willfully makes a lawful second strike, clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more
than once) and clause 34.4 (Runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once) shall apply.

23.2.3 The runs in clause 23.2.2.1, unless credited to the striker, shall be scored as Leg byes.
Additionally, if the delivery is a No ball, the one run penalty for the No ball shall be incurred.

23.3 Leg byes for T20 Tape

Leg Byes are not allowed; however, batsman can rotate strike without accruing any run; batsman
can be run out while attempting to rotate strike. No runs shall accrue on an over throw resulting
after a strike rotation.

23.4 Leg byes not to be awarded

If in the circumstance of clause 23.2.1 the umpire considers that neither of the conditions therein
has been met, then Leg byes shall not be awarded.

If the ball does not become dead for any other reason, the umpire shall call and signal Dead ball as
soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at the completion of the first run.

The umpire shall then:

         - disallow all runs to the batting side;

         - return any not out batter to his/her original end;

         - signal No ball to the scorers if applicable;

         - award any 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for Penalty runs under clause 28.3
         (Protective helmets belonging to the fielding side).

See the video to understand more about Bye and Leg Bye:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ckqcNYGQW4E
                                                                                                              50

Law 24 FIELDER'S ABSENCE; SUBSTITUTES

24.1 Substitute fielders

24.1.1 The umpires shall allow a substitute fielder

         24.1.1.1 Substitute fielders shall only be permitted in cases of injury, illness or other wholly
         acceptable reasons. 'Wholly acceptable reasons' should be limited to extreme circumstances
         and should not include what is commonly referred to as a 'comfort break.'. Tired ness or De-
         hydration or Pre-existing conditions does not constitute for a substitute.

24.1.2 A substitute shall not bowl or act as captain but may act as wicket-keeper only with the
consent of the umpires. Note, however, clause 42.4.1.

24.2 Fielder absent or leaving the field of play

24.2.2 If a fielder fails to take the field at the start of play or at any later time, or leaves the field
during play,

         24.2.2.1 an umpire shall be informed of the reason for this absence.

         24.2.2.2 He/she shall not thereafter come on to the field of play during a session of play
         without the consent of the umpire. See clause 24.4. The umpire shall give such consent as
         soon as it is practicable.

24.2.3 If a player is absent from the field for longer than 8 minutes, the following restrictions shall
apply to their future participation in the match:

         24.2.3.1 The player shall not be permitted to bowl in the match until he/she has either been
         able to field, or his/her team has subsequently been batting, for the total length of playing
         time for which the player was absent (hereafter referred to as Penalty time). A player's
         unexpired Penalty time shall be limited to a maximum of 40 minutes. If any unexpired
         Penalty time remains at the end of an innings, it is carried forward to the next and
         subsequent innings of the match.

         24.2.3.2 The player shall not be permitted to bat in the match until his/her team's batting
         innings has been in progress for the length of playing time that is equal to the unexpired
         Penalty time carried forward from the previous innings.

         However, once his/her side has lost five wickets in its batting innings, he/she may bat
         immediately. If any unexpired penalty time remains at the end of that batting innings, it is
         carried forward to the next and subsequent innings of the match.

24.2.4 If the player leaves the field before having served all of his/her Penalty time, the balance is
carried forward as unserved Penalty time.

24.2.5 On any occasion of absence, the amount of playing time for which the player is off the field
shall be added to any Penalty time that remains unserved, subject to a maximum cumulative Penalty
time of 40 minutes, and that player shall not bowl until all of his/her Penalty time has been served.
                                                                                                              51

24.2.6 For the purposes of clauses 24.2.3.1 and 24.2.3.2, playing time shall comprise the time play is
in progress excluding intervals between innings. For clarity, a player's Penalty time will continue to
expire after he/she is dismissed, for the remainder of his/her team's batting innings.

24.2.7 If there is an unscheduled break in play, the stoppage time shall count as Penalty time served,
provided that,

         24.2.7.1 the fielder who was on the field of play at the start of the break either takes the
         field on the resumption of play, or his/her side is now batting.

         24.2.7.2 the fielder who was already off the field at the start of the break notifies an umpire
         in person as soon as he/she is able to participate, and either takes the field on the
         resumption of play, or his/her side is now batting. Stoppage time before an umpire has been
         so notified shall not count towards unserved Penalty time.

24.2.8 Any unserved Penalty time shall be carried forward into the next innings of the match, as
applicable

24.3 Penalty time not incurred

A nominated player's absence will not incur Penalty time if,

24.3.1 He/she has suffered an external blow during the match and, as a result, has justifiably left the
field or is unable to take the field.

24.3.2 in the opinion of the umpires, the player has been absent or has left the field for other wholly
acceptable reasons, which shall not include illness or internal injury.

24.3.3 the player is absent from the field for a period of 8 minutes or less.

24.4 Player returning without permission

If a player comes on to the field of play in contravention of clause 24.2.2 and comes into contact
with the ball while it is in play, the ball shall immediately become dead.

         - The umpires shall signal No ball or Wide ball to the scorers, if applicable. - The umpire shall
         award 5 Penalty runs to the batting side.

         - Runs completed by the batters shall be scored together with the run in progress if they had
         already crossed at the instant of the offence.

         - The ball shall not count as one of the over.

         - The umpire shall inform the other umpire, the captain of the fielding side, the batters and,
         as soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action.
                                                                                                              52

Law 25 BATTER'S INNINGS

25.1 Eligibility to act as a batter

Only a nominated player may bat

25.2 Commencement of a batter innings

The innings of the first two batters, and that of any new batter on the resumption of play after a call
of Time, shall commence at the call of Play. At any other time, a batter innings shall be considered to
have commenced when that batter first steps onto the field of play.

25.3 Restriction on batter commencing an innings

25.3.1 If a member of the batting side has unserved Penalty time, (see clause 24.2.7), that player
shall not be permitted to bat until that Penalty time has been served. However, even if the unserved
Penalty time has not expired, that player may bat after his/her side has lost 5 wickets.

25.3.2 A member of the batting side's Penalty time is served during Playing time. In the event of an
unscheduled stoppage, the stoppage time after the batter notifies an umpire in person that he/she
is able to participate shall count as Penalty time served.

25.4 Batter retiring

25.4.1 A batter may retire at any time during his/her innings when the ball is dead. The umpires,
before allowing play to proceed, shall be informed of the reason for a batter retiring.

25.4.2 If a batter retires because of illness, injury or any other unavoidable cause, that batter is
entitled to resume his/her innings. If for any reason this does not happen, that batter is to be
recorded as `Retired ­ not out'.

25.4.3 If a batter retires for any reason other than as in clause 25.4.2, the innings of that batter may
be resumed only with the consent of the opposing captain. If for any reason his/her innings is not
resumed, that batter is to be recorded as `Retired ­ out'.

25.4.4 If after retiring a batter resumes his/her innings, subject to the requirements of clauses 25.4.2
and 25.4.3, it shall be only at the fall of a wicket or the retirement of another batter.

25.5 Runners

Runners shall not be permitted in any circumstances unless written approved by Dallas Cricket
League. When runner is allowed for injured batsman who is striker shall have part of his person or
bat grounded behind popping crease until the ball reaches the striker.

25.6 Striker's right to play the ball

The striker has a right to play the ball, or to make a legitimate second strike, after it has been
delivered, without interference from the wicket-keeper or any other fielder (see clause 27.5 ­
Restrictions on actions of wicket-keeper and clause 27.6 ­ Interference with wicket-keeper by
striker). However, the striker may only attempt to play the ball if some of his/her bat or person,
                                                                                                              53

whether grounded or raised, remains within the pitch, as defined in clause 6.1 (Area of pitch).
Should no part of the striker's bat or person remain within the pitch, whilst the striker is playing the
ball, either umpire shall immediately call and signal Dead ball.

Law 26 PRACTICE ON THE FIELD

26.1 Practice on the pitch or the rest of the square

26.1.1 There shall not be any practice on the pitch in following situations:

         - Field setup (Boundary cones/flags and Crease markings) is not complete
         - If outfield is wet or mud sticks to feet, play area must be preserved for game.

26.2 Practice with match ball

Team and bowler must avoid practice with game ball. Bowlers must not warmup with game ball by
pitching on ground, directly into fielders' hand is ok.

26.3 Trial run-up

A bowler is permitted to have a trial run-up provided the umpire is satisfied that it will not
contravene either of clauses 41.9 (Time wasting by the fielding side) or 41.12 (Fielder damaging the
pitch).

26.4 Penalties for contravention

All forms of practice are subject to the provisions of clauses 41.3 (The match ball ­ changing its
condition), 41.9 (Time wasting by the fielding side) and 41.12 (Fielder damaging the pitch).

26.4.1 If there is a contravention of any of the provisions of clause 26.1 or 26.2, the umpire shall -
warn the player that the practice is not permitted.

         - inform the other umpire and, as soon as practicable, both captains of the reason for this
         action.

26.4.1.1 If the contravention is by a batter at the wicket, the umpire shall inform the other batter
and each incoming batter that the warning has been issued. The warning shall apply to the team of
that player throughout the match.

26.4.2 If during the match there is any further contravention by any player of that team, the umpire
shall:

         - award 5 Penalty runs to the opposing side.

         - inform the other umpire, the scorers and, as soon as practicable, both captains, and, if the
         contravention is during play, the batters at the wicket.
                                                                                                              54

Law 27 THE WICKET-KEEPER

27.1 Protective equipment

The wicket-keeper is the only fielder permitted to wear gloves (exception cold weather rule) and
external leg guards. If these are worn, they are to be regarded as part of his/her person for the
purposes of clause 28.2 (Fielding the ball). If by the wicket-keeper's actions and positioning when
the ball comes into play it is apparent to the umpires that he/she will not be able to carry out the
normal duties of a wicket-keeper, he/she shall forfeit this right and also the right to be recognized as
a wicket-keeper for the purposes of clauses 33.2 (A fair catch), 39 (Stumped), 28.1 (Protective
equipment), 28.4 (Limitation of on-side fielders) and 28.5 (Fielders not to encroach on pitch).

27.2 Gloves

27.2.1 If, as permitted under clause 27.1, the wicket-keeper wears gloves, they shall have no
webbing between the fingers except joining index finger and thumb, where webbing may be
inserted as a means of support.

27.2.2 If used, the webbing shall be a single piece of non-stretch material which, although it may
have facing material attached, shall have no reinforcements or tucks.

27.3 Position of wicket-keeper

27.3.1 The wicket-keeper shall remain wholly behind the wicket at the striker's end from the
moment the ball comes into play until a ball delivered by the bowler:

         -touches the bat or person of the striker; or

         -passes the wicket at the striker's end; or

         -the striker attempts a run.

27.3.2 In the event of the wicket-keeper contravening this clause, the striker's end umpire shall call
and signal No ball as soon as applicable after the delivery of the ball.

                                                    No Ball
                                                                                                              55

27.4 Movement by wicket-keeper

27.4.1 After the ball comes into play and before it reaches the striker, it is unfair if the wicket-keeper
significantly alters his/her position in relation to the striker's wicket, except for the following:

27.4.1.1 movement of a few paces forward for a slower delivery, unless in so doing it brings him
within reach of the wicket.

27.4.1.2 lateral movement in response to the direction in which the ball has been delivered.

27.4.1.3 movement in response to the stroke that the striker is playing or that his/her actions
suggest he/she intends to play. However, the provisions of clause 27.3 shall apply.

27.4.2 In the event of unfair movement by the wicket-keeper, either umpire shall call and signal
Dead ball and inform the other umpire of the reason for doing so. The bowler's end umpire shall
then:

27.4.2.1 award the one-run penalty for Wide or No ball, if applicable

27.4.2.2 award 5 Penalty runs to the batting side

27.4.2.3 inform the captain of the fielding side of the reason for this action.

27.4.2.4 inform the batters and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has
occurred.

27.5 Restriction on actions of wicket-keeper

If, in the opinion of either umpire, the wicket-keeper interferes with the striker's right to play the
ball and to guard his/her wicket, clause 20.4.2.6 (Umpire calling and signaling Dead ball) shall apply.
If, however, either umpire considers that the interference by the wicket-keeper was willful, then
clause 41.1 (Deliberate attempt to distract striker) shall also apply.

27.6 Interference with wicket-keeper by striker

If, in playing at the ball or in the legitimate defense of his/her wicket, the striker interferes with the
wicket-keeper, he/she shall not be out except as provided for in clause 37.3 (Obstructing a ball from
being caught).

Law 28 THE FIELDER

28.1 Protective equipment

No fielder other than the wicket-keeper shall be permitted to wear gloves or external leg guards. In
addition, protection for the hand or fingers may be worn only with the consent of the umpires.
Except during winter games when temperatures are below 50 degrees, fielders are allowed to
wear woolen gloves.
                                                                                                              56

28.2 Fielding the ball

28.2.1 A fielder may field the ball with any part of his/her person (see paragraph 12 of Appendix A),
except as in clause 28.2.1.2. However, he/she will be deemed to have fielded the ball illegally if,
while the ball is in play he/she willfully

28.2.1.1 uses anything other than part of his/her person to field the ball.
28.2.1.2 Extends his/her clothing with his/her hands and uses this to field the ball.

28.2.1.3 discards a piece of clothing, equipment or any other object which subsequently makes
contact with the ball.

28.2.2 It is not illegal fielding if the ball in play makes contact with a piece of clothing, equipment or
any other object which has accidentally fallen from the fielder's person or been dropped by an
umpire.

28.2.3 If a fielder illegally fields the ball, the ball shall immediately become dead and - the penalty
for a No ball or a Wide shall stand.

         - any runs completed by the batters shall be credited to the batting side, together with the
         run- in progress if the batters had already crossed at the instant of the offence.

         - the ball shall not count as one of the over.

In addition, the umpire shall:

         - award 5 Penalty runs to the batting side.

         - inform the other umpire and the captain of the fielding side of the reason for this action.

         - inform the batters and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has
         occurred.

28.3 Protective helmets belonging to the fielding side

28.3.1 Protective helmets, when not in use by fielders, may not be placed on the ground, above the
surface except behind the wicket-keeper and in line with both sets of stumps.

28.3.2 If the ball while in play strikes the protective helmet, placed as described in clause 28.3.1 the
ball shall immediately become Dead and, unless 28.3.3. applies:

the umpire shall signal No ball or Wide ball to the scorers, if applicable, the umpire shall award of 5
Penalty runs to the batting side;

28.3.2.1 any runs completed by the batters before the ball strikes the protective helmet shall be
scored, together with the run in progress if the batters had already crossed at the instant of the ball
striking the protective helmet.
                                                                                                              57
28.3.3 If the ball while in play strikes a protective helmet, placed as described in clause 28.3.1, and
the circumstances of clause 23.3 (Leg byes not to be awarded) or clause 34 (Hit the ball twice) apply,
the umpire shall:

         - disallow all runs to the batting side
         - return any not out batter to his/her original end
         - signal No ball or Wide ball to the scorers if applicable
         - award any 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for Penalty runs under clause 28.3.2.

28.4 Limitation of on side fielders

28.4.1 At the instant of delivery, there may not be more than 5 fielders on the leg side. Bowler and
wicket-keeper are not counted in fielding limitations.
28.4.2 At the instant of the bowler's delivery there shall not be more than two fielders, other than
the wicket-keeper, behind the popping crease on the on side. A fielder will be considered to be
behind the popping crease unless the whole of his/her person whether grounded or in the air is in
front of this line.
28.4.3 In the event of infringement of this clause by any fielder, the striker's end umpire shall call
and signal No ball.

28.5 Fielders not to encroach on pitch

While the ball is in play and until the ball has made contact with the striker's bat or person, or has
passed the striker's bat, no fielder, other than the bowler, may have any part of his/her person
grounded on or extended over the pitch.
In the event of infringement of this clause by any fielder other than the wicket-keeper, the bowler's
end umpire shall call and signal No ball as soon as possible after delivery of the ball. Note, however,
clause 27.3 (Position of wicket-keeper).
                                                                                                              58

28.6 Movement by any fielder other than the wicket-keeper

28.6.1 Any movement by any fielder, excluding the wicket-keeper, after the ball comes into play and
before the ball reaches the striker, is unfair except for the following:

28.6.1.1 minor adjustments to stance or position in relation to the striker's wicket.

28.6.1.2 movement by any fielder, other than a close fielder, towards the striker or the striker's
wicket that does not significantly alter the position of the fielder.

28.6.1.3 movement by any fielder in response to the stroke that the striker is playing or that his/her
actions suggest he/she intends to play.

28.6.2 In all circumstances clause 28.4 (Limitation of on side fielders) shall apply.

28.6.3 In the event of such unfair movement, either umpire shall call and signal Dead ball and inform
the other umpire of the reason for doing so. The bowler's end umpire shall then:

28.6.3.1 award the one-run penalty for Wide or No ball, if applicable

28.6.3.2 award 5 Penalty runs to the batting side
28.6.3.3 inform the captain of the fielding side of the reason for this action.

28.6.3.4 inform the batters and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has
occurred.

28.6.4 Note also the provisions of clause 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to distract striker). See also clause
27.4 (Movement by wicket-keeper).

28.7 Restrictions on the placement of fielders

28.7.1 In addition to the restrictions contained in clause 28.4 above, further fielding restrictions shall
apply to certain overs in each innings. The nature of such fielding restrictions and the overs during
which they shall apply are set out in the following paragraphs.

28.7.2 Subject to 28.7.6 below these additional fielding restrictions shall apply to the first 6 overs of
each innings (Powerplay overs).

28.7.3 Two semi-circles shall be drawn on the field of play. The semi-circles shall have as their center
the middle stump at either end of the pitch. The radius of each of the semi-circles shall be 30 yards
(27.43 meters). The semi-circles shall be linked by two parallel straight lines drawn on the field (see
paragraph 2 of Appendix C). These fielding restriction areas should be marked by continuous painted
white lines or `dots' at 5 yard (4.57 meters) intervals, each `dot' to be covered by a white plastic or
rubber (but not metal) disc measuring 7 inches (18 cm) in diameter.

28.7.4 During the Powerplay overs only two fielders shall be permitted outside this fielding
restriction area at the instant of delivery. (Refer table below for 30 over and 40 over game)
                                                                                                  59

28.7.5 During the non-Powerplay overs, no more than 5 fielders shall be permitted outside the
fielding restriction area referred to in clause 28.7.3 above. (Refer table below for 30 over and 40 over
game)

28.7.6 In circumstances when the number of overs of the batting team is reduced, the number of
Powerplay overs shall be reduced in accordance with the table below. For the sake of clarity, it
should be noted that the table shall apply to both the 1st and 2nd innings of the match

T20 Game

Total Overs in Innings                  Number of Overs Which Fielding Restrictions in
                                        Clauses 28.7.2 and 28.7.4 Above Will Apply
5-8                                     2
9-11                                    3
12-14                                   4
15-18                                   5
19-20                                   6

30 Over/40 Over Game

Total Overs in Innings  1st Power Play  2nd Power Play  3rd Power Play
8                       2               4               2
9                       2               5               2
10                      2               6               2
11                      2               7               2
12                      3               7               2
13                      3               8               3
14                      3               8               3
15                      3               9               3
16                      3               10              3
17                      3               10              3
18                      4               11              3
19                      4               11              4
20                      4               12              4
21                      4               13              4
22                      5               13              4
23                      5               14              4
24                      5               14              5
25                      5               15              5
26                      6               16              5
27                      6               16              5
28                      6               17              6
29                      6               17              6
30                      6               18              6
31                      6               19              6
32                      7               19              6
33                      7               20              6
34                      7               20              7
35                      7               21              7
36                      7               22              7
                                                                                                         60

37                 8             22  7

38                 8             22  8

39                 8             23  8

40                 8             24  8

28.7.7 If an innings is interrupted during an over and if on the resumption of play, due to the
reduced number of overs of the batting team, the required number of Powerplay overs have already
been bowled, the remaining deliveries in the over to be completed shall not be subject to the
fielding restrictions.

28.7.8 In the event of an infringement of any of the above fielding restrictions, the square leg umpire
shall call and signal No ball.

Law 29 THE WICKET IS BROKEN

29.1 Wicket put down

The wicket is broken when at least one bail is completely removed from the top of the stumps, or
one or more stumps is removed from the ground.

29.2 Breaking the wicket fairly

29.2.1 The wicket is broken fairly if a bail is completely removed from the top of the stumps, or a
stump is struck out of the ground.

29.2.1.1 by the ball,
29.2.1.2 by the striker's bat if held or by any part of the bat that he/she is holding,

29.2.1.3 for the purpose of this clause only, by the striker's bat not in hand, or by any part of the bat
which has become detached,

29.2.1.4 by the striker's person or by any part of his/her clothing or equipment, including the
helmet, grille and/or neck guard becoming detached from his/her person,

29.2.1.5 by a fielder with his/her hand or arm, providing that the ball is held in the hand or hands so
used, or in the hand of the arm so used.

29.1.1.6 The wicket is also broken fairly if a fielder strikes or pulls a stump out of the ground as in
clause 29.2.1.5.

29.2.2 The disturbance of a bail, whether temporary or not, shall not constitute its complete
removal from the top of the stumps, but if a bail in falling lodges between two of the stumps this
shall be regarded as complete removal.

29.3 One bail off

The disturbance of a bail, whether temporary or not, shall not constitute its complete removal from
the top of the stumps, but if a bail in falling lodges between two of the stumps this shall be regarded
as complete removal.
                                                                                                              61

29.4 Remaking wicket

If a wicket is broken or put down while the ball is in play, it shall not be remade by an umpire until
the ball is dead. See clause 20 (Dead ball). Any fielder may, however, while the ball is in play,

         - replace a bail or bails on top of the stumps.
         - put back one or more stumps into the ground where the wicket originally stood.

29.5 Dispensing with bails

If the umpires have agreed to dispense with bails in accordance with clause 8.5 (Dispensing with
bails), it is for the umpire concerned to decide whether or not the wicket has been broken.

29.5.1 After a decision to play without bails, the wicket has been broken fairly if the umpire
concerned is satisfied that the wicket has been struck by the ball, by the striker's bat, person or
items of his/her

clothing or equipment as described in clauses 29.2.1.2, 29.2.1.3 or 29.2.1.4, or by a fielder in the
manner described in clause 29.2.1.5.

29.5.2 If the wicket has already been broken or put down, clause 29.5.1 shall apply to any stump or
stumps still in the ground. Any fielder may replace a stump or stumps, in accordance with clause
29.4, in order to have an opportunity of breaking the wicket fairly.

See the video to understand more about Wicket is put down:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uKegK1v2Z4c

Law 30 BATTER OUT OF HIS/HER GROUND

30.1 When out of his/her ground

30.1.1 A batter shall be considered to be out of his/her ground unless some part of his/her person or
bat is grounded behind the popping crease at that end.

                                OUT! Bat needs to be in Hand
                                                                                                              62

30.1.2 However, a batter shall not be considered to be out of his/her ground if, in running or diving
towards his/her ground and beyond and having grounded some part of his/her person or bat
beyond the popping crease, there is subsequent loss of contact between the ground and any part of
his/her person or bat, or between the bat and person.

30.2 Which is a batter ground

30.2.1 If only one batter is within a ground, it is his/her ground and will remain so even if he/she is
later joined there by the other batter.
30.2.2 If both batters are in the same ground and one of them subsequently leaves it, the ground
belongs to the batter who remains in it.
30.2.3 If there is no batter in either ground, then each ground belongs to whichever batter is nearer
to it, or, if the batters are level, to whichever batter was nearer to it immediately prior to their
drawing level.
30.2.4 If a ground belongs to one batter then the other ground belongs to the other batter,
irrespective of his/her position.

30.3 Position of non-striker

The non-striker, when standing at the bowler's end, should be positioned on the opposite side of the
wicket to that from which the ball is being delivered, unless a request to do otherwise is granted by
the umpire.
See the video to understand more about batter out of his/her ground:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rhs1qkAkwqM or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WUR96vl5P6M
                                                                                                              63

Law 31 APPEALS

31.1 Umpire not to give batter out without an appeal

Neither umpire shall give a batter out, even though he/she may be out under these Playing
Conditions, unless appealed to by a fielder. This shall not debar a batter who is out under these
Playing Conditions from leaving the wicket without an appeal having been made. Note, however, the
provisions of clause 31.7.

31.2 Batter dismissed

A batter is dismissed if he/she is either given out by an umpire, on appeal or out under these Playing
Conditions and leaves the wicket as in clause 31.1.

31.3 Timing of appeals

For an appeal to be valid, it must be made before the bowler begins his/her run-up or, if there is no
run- up, his/her bowling action to deliver the next ball, and before Time has been called.

The call of Over does not invalidate an appeal made prior to the start of the following over, provided
Time has not been called. See clauses 12.2 (Call of Time) and 17.2 (Start of an over).

31.4 Appeal "How's That?"

An appeal "How's That?" covers all ways of being out.

31.5 Answering appeals

The striker's end umpire shall answer all appeals arising out of any of clauses 35 (Hit wicket), 39
(Stumped) or 38 (Run out) when this occurs at the wicket-keeper's end. The bowler's end umpire
shall answer all other appeals.

When an appeal is made, each umpire shall answer on any matter that falls within his/her
jurisdiction.

When a batter has been given Not out, either umpire may answer an appeal, made in accordance
with clause 31.3, if it is on a further matter and is within his/her jurisdiction.

31.6 Consultation by umpires

Each umpire shall answer appeals on matters within his/her own jurisdiction. If an umpire is
doubtful about any point that the other umpire may have been in a better position to see, he/she
shall consult the latter on this point of fact and shall then give the decision. If, after consultation,
there is still doubt remaining, the decision shall be Not out.

31.7 Batter leaving the wicket under a misapprehension

An umpire shall intervene if satisfied that a batter, not having been given out, has left the wicket
under a misapprehension of being out. The umpire intervening shall call and signal Dead ball to
prevent any further action by the fielding side and shall recall the batter.
                                                                                                              64

A batter may be recalled at any time up to the instant when the ball comes into play for the next
delivery, unless it is the final wicket of the innings, in which case it should be up to the instant when
the umpires leave the field.

31.8 Withdrawal of an appeal

The captain of the fielding side may withdraw an appeal only after obtaining the consent of the
umpire within whose jurisdiction the appeal falls. If such consent is given, the umpire concerned
shall, if applicable, revoke the decision and recall the batter.

The withdrawal of an appeal must be before the instant when the ball comes into play for the next
delivery or, if the innings has been completed, the instant when the umpires leave the field.

Law 32 BOWLED

32.1 Out Bowled

32.1.1 The striker is out Bowled if his/her wicket is put down by a ball delivered by the bowler, not
being a No ball, even if it first touches the striker's bat or person.

32.1.2 However, the striker shall not be out Bowled if before striking the wicket the ball has been in
contact with any other player or an umpire. The striker will, however, be subject to clauses 37
(Obstructing the field), 38 (Run out) and 39 (Stumped).

32.2 Bowled to take precedence

The striker is out Bowled if his/her wicket is broken as in clause 32.1, even though a decision against
him for any other method of dismissal would be justified.

Law 33 CAUGHT

33.1 Out Caught

The striker is out Caught if a ball delivered by the bowler, not being a No ball, touches his/her bat
without having previously been in contact with any fielder, and is subsequently held by a fielder as a
fair catch, as described in clause 33.2 and 33.3, before it touches the ground.

33.2 A fair catch

33.2.1 A catch will be fair only if, in every case
either the ball, at any time or any fielder in contact with the ball,

is not grounded beyond the boundary before the catch is completed. Note clauses 19.4 (Ball
grounded beyond the boundary) and 19.5 (Fielder grounded beyond the boundary).

33.2.2 Furthermore, a catch will be fair if any of the following conditions applies:

33.2.2.1 the ball is held in the hand or hands of a fielder, even if the hand holding the ball is touching
the ground, or is hugged to the body, or lodges in the external protective equipment worn by a
fielder, or lodges accidentally in a fielder's clothing.
                                                                                                              65

33.2.2.2 a fielder catches the ball after it has been lawfully struck more than once by the striker, but
only if it has not been grounded since it was first struck. See clause 34 (Hit the ball twice).

33.2.2.3 a fielder catches the ball after it has touched the wicket, an umpire, another fielder or the
other batter.

33.2.2.4 a fielder catches the ball after it has crossed the boundary in the air, provided that the
conditions in clause 33.2.1 are met.

33.2.2.5 the ball is caught off an obstruction within the boundary that is not designated a boundary
by the umpires.

33.3 Making a catch

The act of making a catch shall start from the time when the ball first comes into contact with a
fielder's person and shall end when a fielder obtains complete control over both the ball and his/her
own movement.

33.4 No runs to be scored

If the striker is dismissed Caught, runs from that delivery completed by the batters before the
completion of the catch shall not be scored but any runs for penalties awarded to either side shall
stand. The non-striker shall return to his/her original end. Clause 18.11 Batter returning to original
end.

33.5 Caught to take precedence

If the criteria of clause 33.1 are met and the striker is not out Bowled, then he/she is out Caught,
even though a decision against either batter for another method of dismissal would be justified.

See the video to understand more about Caught out: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mO3H-
BN-v14 or https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZTDuu-TAvas&t=11s

Law 34 HIT THE BALL TWICE
34.1 Out Hit the ball twice

34.1.1 The striker is out Hit the ball twice if, while the ball is in play, it strikes any part of his/her
person or is struck by his/her bat and, before the ball has been touched by a fielder, the striker
willfully strikes it again with his/her bat or person, other than a hand not holding the bat, except for
the sole purpose of guarding his/her wicket. See clause 34.3 and clause 37 (Obstructing the field).

34.1.2 For the purpose of this clause `struck' or `strike' shall include contact with the person of the
striker.

34.1.3 This clause will apply whether or not No ball is called.

34.2 Not out Hit the ball twice

The striker will not be out under this clause if he/she
                                                                                                              66

34.2.1 strikes the ball a second or subsequent time in order to return the ball to any fielder.

Note, however, the provisions of clause 37.4 (Returning the ball to a fielder).

34.2.2 willfully strikes the ball after it has touched a fielder. Note, however the provisions of clause
37.1 (Out Obstructing the field).

34.3 Ball lawfully struck more than once

The striker may, solely in order to guard his/her wicket and before the ball has been touched by a
fielder, lawfully strike the ball a second or subsequent time with the bat, or with any part of his/her
person other than a hand not holding the bat. The striker may guard his/her wicket even if the
delivery is a No ball.

However, the striker may not prevent the ball from being caught by striking the ball more than once
in defense of his/her wicket. See clause 37.3 (Obstructing a ball from being caught).

34.4 Runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once

When the ball is lawfully struck more than once, as permitted in clause 34.3, if the ball does not
become dead for any reason, the umpire shall call and signal Dead ball as soon as the ball reaches
the boundary or at the completion of the first run. However, the umpire shall delay the call of Dead
ball to allow the opportunity for a catch to be completed.

The umpire shall

         - disallow all runs to the batting side

         - return any not out batter to his/her original end

         - signal No ball to the scorers if applicable; and

         - award any 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for Penalty runs under clause 28.3
         (Protective helmets belonging to the fielding side).

34.5 Bowler does not get credit

The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.

See the video to understand more about hit the ball twice:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4wDCM4wYGXw

Law 35 HIT WICKET

35.1 Out Hit wicket

35.1.1 The striker is out Hit wicket if, after the bowler has entered the delivery stride and while the
ball is in play, his/her wicket is broken by either the striker's bat or person as described in clauses 0
to 0 (Breaking the wicket fairly) in any of the following circumstances:

35.1.1.1 in the course of any action taken by him in preparing to receive or in receiving a delivery,
                                                                                                          67

35.1.1.2 in setting off for the first run immediately after playing or playing at the ball,

35.1.1.3 if no attempt is made to play the ball, in setting off for the first run, providing that in the
opinion of the umpire this is immediately after the striker has had the opportunity of playing the
ball,

35.1.1.4 in lawfully making a second or further stroke for the purpose of guarding his/her wicket
within the provisions of clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once).

35.1.2 If the striker breaks his/her wicket down in any of the ways described in clauses 0 to 0
(Breaking the wicket fairly) before the bowler has entered the delivery stride, either umpire shall call
and signal Dead ball.

35.2 Not out Hit wicket

The striker is not out under this clause should his/her wicket be put down in any of the ways
referred to in clause 35.1 if any of the following applies:

    - it occurs after the striker has completed any action in receiving the delivery, other than in
    clauses 35.1.1.2 to 35.1.1.4.

    - it occurs when the striker is in the act of running, other than setting off immediately for the
    first run.

    - it occurs when the striker is trying to avoid being Run out or stumped. - it occurs when the
    striker is trying to avoid a throw in at any time.

    - the bowler after entering the delivery stride does not deliver the ball. In this case either
    umpire shall immediately call and signal Dead ball. See clause 20.4 (Umpire calling and
    signaling Dead ball).

    - the delivery is a No ball.

35.3 Runs scored

No runs shall be scored when the striker is dismissed Hit wicket other than the one-run penalty for a
Wide and any award of 5 Penalty Runs.

See the video to understand more about Hit wicket:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lrDZAPvtsAg

Law 36 LEG BEFORE WICKET

TAPE BALL:

i.  LBW are not allowed in DCL Tape ball cricket league except in case of deliberate padding

    as described under "ii" below

ii. Deliberate Padding by a batsman is not allowed anytime during the match. The
         umpire(s) are required to give a warning for the first 2 times and can rule the batsman
                                                                                                              68

              out LBW on the third time. Deliberate padding is defined as defending the balls, which is
              going to hit the stumps otherwise with your legs, without offering a shot.

LEATHER BALL:
36.1 Out LBW

The striker is out LBW if all the circumstances set out in clauses 36.1.1 to 36.1.5 apply. 36.1.1 The
bowler delivers a ball, not being a No ball

36.1.2 the ball, if it is not intercepted full-pitch, pitches in line between wicket and wicket or on the
off side of the striker's wicket

36.1.3 the ball not having previously touched his/her bat, the striker intercepts the ball, either full-
pitch or after pitching, with any part of his/her person

36.1.4 the point of impact, even if above the level of the bails,
either is between wicket and wicket
or if the striker has made no genuine attempt to play the ball with the bat, is between wicket and
wicket or outside the line of the off stump.

36.1.5 but for the interception, the ball would have hit the wicket.

36.2 Interception of the ball

36.2.1 In assessing points of impact in clauses 36.1.3, 36.1.4 and 36.1.5, only the first interception is
to be considered.

36.2.2 In assessing 36.1.3, if the bowler's end umpire is not satisfied that the ball intercepted the
batter person before it touched the bat, the batter shall be given Not out.

36.2.3 In assessing clause 36.1.5, it is to be assumed that the path of the ball before interception
would have continued after interception, irrespective of whether the ball might have pitched
subsequently or not.

36.3 Off side of wicket

The off side of the striker's wicket shall be determined by the striker's batting position at the
moment the ball comes into play for that delivery.
                                                                                                              69

See the video to understand more about LBW: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dk1-8NtAavA

Law 37 OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD

37.1 Out Obstructing the field

37.1.1 Either batter is out Obstructing the field if, except in the circumstances of clause 37.2, and
while the ball is in play, he/she willfully attempts to obstruct or distract the fielding side by word or
action. See also clause 34 (Hit the ball twice).
37.1.2 The striker is out Obstructing the field if, except in the circumstances of clause 37.2, in the act
of receiving a ball delivered by the bowler, he/she willfully strikes the ball with a hand not holding
the bat. This will apply whether it is the first strike or a second or subsequent strike. The act of
receiving the ball shall extend both to playing at the ball and to striking the ball more than once in
defense of his/her wicket.
37.1.3 This clause will apply whether or not No ball is called.
37.1.4 For the avoidance of doubt, if an umpire feels that a batter, in running between the wickets,
has significantly changed his/her direction without probable cause and thereby obstructed a fielder's
attempt to affect a run out, the batter should, on appeal, be given out, obstructing the field. It shall
not be relevant whether a run out would have occurred or not.
If the change of direction involves the batter crossing the pitch, clause 41.14 shall also apply.

37.2 Not out Obstructing the field

A batter shall not be out Obstructing the field if
obstruction or distraction is accidental, or obstruction is in order to avoid injury, or
in the case of the striker, he/she makes a second or subsequent strike to guard his/her wicket
lawfully as in clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once). However, see clause 37.3.
                                                                                                              70

37.3 Obstructing a ball from being caught

37.3.1 If the delivery is not a No ball, the striker is out Obstructing the field if willful obstruction or
distraction by either batter prevents the striker being out caught.

37.3.2 Clause 37.3.1 shall apply even if an obstruction is caused by the striker in lawfully guarding
his/her wicket under the provision of Clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once).

37.3.3 If an obstruction or distraction takes place from a No ball then the batter who caused the
obstruction or distraction will be out Obstructing the field.

However, the striker is not out if the obstruction of a catch occurs while defending his/her wicket
from a No ball with a lawful second strike.

37.4 Returning the ball to a fielder

Either batter is out Obstructing the field if, at any time while the ball is in play and, without the
consent of a fielder, he/she uses the bat or any part of his/her person to return the ball to any
fielder.

37.5 Runs scored

When either batter is dismissed Obstructing the field,

37.5.1 unless the obstruction or distraction prevents the striker being out Caught, any runs
completed by the batters before the offence shall be scored, together with any one-run Penalty for
No ball or wide, or any other award of 5 Penalty Runs to either side. See clauses 18.6 (Runs awarded
for penalties) and 18.8 (Runs scored when a batter is dismissed).

37.5.2 if the obstruction or distraction prevents the striker being out Caught, any runs completed by
the batters shall not be scored but any award of 5 Penalty Runs to either side shall stand. Clause
18.11 (Batter returning to original end) will apply.

37.6 Bowler does not get credit

The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.

See the video to understand more about Obstructing the field law:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8_0p3fWwAyE

Law 38 RUN OUT

38.1 Out Run out

Either batter is out Run out, except as in clause 38.2, if, at any time while the ball is in play,

He/she is out of his/her ground and his/her wicket is fairly broken by either the action of a fielder or
the ball rebounding off a fielder's person even though No ball has been called, except in the
circumstances of clause 38.2.2.2, and whether or not a run is being attempted.
                                                                                                              71

38.2 Batter not out Run out

38.2.1 A batter is not out Run out in the circumstances of clauses 38.2.1.1 or 38.2.1.2.

38.2.1.1 He/she has been within his/her ground and has subsequently left it to avoid injury, when
the wicket is fairly broken.

38.2.1.2 The ball, delivered by the bowler, has not made contact with a fielder, before the wicket is
fairly broken.

38.2.2 The striker is not out Run out in any of the circumstances in clauses 38.2.2.1 and 38.2.2.2.
38.2.2.1 He/she is out Stumped. See clause 39.1.2 (Out Stumped).

38.2.2.2 No ball has been called and he/she is out of his/her ground not attempting a run and the
wicket is fairly broken by the wicket-keeper without the intervention of another fielder.

38.3 Non-striker leaving his/her ground early

38.3.1 If the non-striker is out of his/her ground at any time from the moment the ball comes into
play until the instant when the bowler would normally have been expected to release the ball, the
non- striker is liable to be Run out by the bowler attempting to run him/her out. In these
circumstances, the non- striker will be out Run out if he/she is out of his/her ground when his/her
wicket is broken by the bowler throwing the ball at the wicket or by the bowler's hand holding the
ball, whether or not the ball is subsequently delivered.

38.3.2 If the ball is not delivered.

         - if there is an appeal, the umpire shall make his/her decision on the Run out.

         - if there is no appeal, or if the decision is not out, he/she shall call and signal Dead ball as
         soon as possible.

         - the ball shall not count as one in the over.

38.4 Which batter is out

The batter out in the circumstances of clause 38.1 is the one whose ground is at the end where the
wicket is fairly broken. See clause 30.2 (Which is a batter ground).

38.5 Runs scored

If either batter is dismissed Run out, the run in progress when the wicket is put down shall not be
scored, but any runs completed by the batters shall stand, together with any runs for penalties
awarded to either side. See clauses 18.6 (Runs awarded for penalties) and 18.8 (Runs scored when a
batter is dismissed).

38.6 Bowler does not get credit

The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
                                                                                                              72

See the video to understand more about Run-Out:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M_OrBFBCrmg or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WUR96vl5P6M or
https://www.youtube.com/shorts/xlrDfgWhlUA (for mankading runout)

Law 39 STUMPED

39.1 Out Stumped

39.1.1 The striker is out Stumped, except as in clause 39.3, if

a ball which is delivered is not called No ball

and he/she is out of his/her ground, other than as in clause 39.3.1

and he/she has not attempted a run

when his/her wicket is fairly broken by the wicket-keeper without the intervention of another
fielder. Note, however clause 27.3 (Position of wicket-keeper).

39.1.2 The striker is out Stumped if all the conditions of clause 39.1.1 are satisfied, even though a
decision of Run out would be justified.

39.2 Ball rebounding from wicket-keeper's person

If the wicket is broken by the ball, it shall be regarded as having been broken by the wicket-keeper if
the ball rebounds on to the stumps from any part of the wicket-keeper's person or equipment or has
been kicked or thrown on to the stumps by the wicket-keeper.

39.3 Not out Stumped

39.3.1 The striker will not be out Stumped if, after having received the delivery, he/she has left
his/her ground in order to avoid injury.

39.3.2 If the striker is not out Stumped he/she may, except in the circumstances of clause 38.2.2.2,
(Batter not out Run out), be out Run out if the conditions of clause 38.1 (Out Run out) apply.

39.4 Runs Scored

When a striker is dismissed Stumped from a Wide ball, the one-run penalty shall stand. Note clauses
12.9 (Conclusion of match), 16.6 (Winning hit or extras) and 22.2 (Call and signal of Wide ball) mean
that if the penalty for a Wide concludes the match, then a stumping is not possible, but the one-run
penalty for the Wide remains.

See the video to understand more about Stump out:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1HkrCIlvvIQ
                                                                                                              73

40 TIMED OUT

40.1 Out Timed out

40.1.1 After the fall of a wicket or the retirement of a batter, the incoming batter must, unless Time
has been called, be ready to receive the ball, or for the other batter to be ready to receive the next
ball within 1 minute 30 seconds ( 90 seconds) of the dismissal or retirement. If this requirement is
not met, the incoming batter will be out, Timed out.

40.1.2 The incoming batter is expected to be ready to make his/her way to the wicket immediately a
wicket falls.

40.1.3 In the event of an extended delay in which no batter comes to the wicket, the umpires shall
adopt the procedure of clause 16.2 (Umpire awarding a match). For the purposes of that clause the
start of the action shall be taken as the expiry of the 1 minute 30 seconds referred to above.

40.2 Bowler does not get credit

The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.

41 UNFAIR PLAY

41.1 Fair and unfair play ­ responsibility of captains

The captains are responsible for ensuring that play is conducted within the Spirit of Cricket, as well
as within these Playing Conditions.

41.2 Fair and unfair play ­ responsibility of umpires

41.2.1 The umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play. If either umpire considers that any
action by a player, not covered by these Playing Conditions, is unfair, he/she shall call and signal
Dead ball, if appropriate, as soon as it becomes clear that the call will not disadvantage the non-
offending side and report the matter to the other umpire.

41.2.1.1 If this is a first offence by that side, the bowler's end umpire shall then

         - summon the offending player's captain and issue a first and final warning which shall apply
         to all members of the team for the remainder of the match.

         - warn the offending player's captain that any further such offence by any member of
         his/her team shall result in the award of 5 Penalty runs to the opposing team.

41.2.1.2 If this is a second or subsequent offence by that side the bowler's end umpire shall then

         - summon the offending player's captain and inform him that there has been a further such
         offence.

         - award 5 Penalty runs to the opposing side.
                                                                                                              74

41.4 Deliberate attempt to distract striker

41.4.1 It is unfair for any fielder deliberately to attempt to distract the striker while he/she is
preparing to receive or receiving a delivery.

41.4.2 If either umpire considers that any action by a fielder is such an attempt, he/she shall
immediately call and signal Dead ball and inform the other umpire of the reason for the call. The
bowler's end umpire shall

         - award 5 Penalty runs to the batting side.

         - inform the captain of the fielding side, the batters and, as soon as practicable, the captain
         of the batting side of the reason for the action.

Neither batter shall be dismissed from that delivery and the ball shall not count as one of the over.
However, if either umpire had reason to call and signal No ball, he/she shall do so regardless of the
attempt to distract, and this call shall stand.

41.5 Deliberate distraction, deception or obstruction of batter

41.5.1 In addition to clause 41.4, it is unfair for any fielder willfully to attempt, by word or action, to
distract, deceive or obstruct either batter after the striker has received the ball.

41.5.2 It is for either one of the umpires to decide whether any distraction, deception or obstruction
is willful or not.

41.5.3 If either umpire considers that a fielder has caused or attempted to cause such a distraction,
deception or obstruction, he/she shall immediately call and signal Dead ball and inform the other
umpire of the reason for the call.

41.5.4 Neither batter shall be dismissed from that delivery.

41.5.5 If an obstruction involves physical contact, the umpires together shall decide whether or not
an offence under clause 42 (Players' conduct) has been committed.

41.5.5.1 If an offence under clause 42 (Players' conduct) has been committed, they shall apply the
relevant procedures in clause 42 and shall also apply each of clauses 41.5.7 to 41.5.9.

41.5.5.2 If they consider that there has been no offence under clause 42 (Players' conduct), they
shall apply each of clauses 41.5.6 to 41.5.10.

41.5.6 The bowler's end umpire shall;

         - Signal No ball or Wide to the scorers, if applicable.

         - award 5 Penalty runs to the batting side.

         - inform the captain of the fielding side of the reason for this action and as soon as
         practicable inform the captain of the batting side.
                                                                                                              75

41.5.7 The ball shall not count as one of the over.

41.5.8 Any runs completed by the batters before the offence shall be scored, together with any runs
for penalties awarded to either side. Additionally, the run in progress shall be scored whether or not
the batters had already crossed at the instant of the offence.

41.5.9 The batters at the wicket shall decide which of them is to face the next deliver

41.6 Bowling of dangerous and unfair short pitched deliveries

41.6.1 Notwithstanding clause 41.6.2, the bowling of short pitched deliveries is dangerous if the
bowler's end umpire considers that, taking into consideration the skill of the striker, by their speed,
length, height and direction they are likely to inflict physical injury on him. The fact that the striker is
wearing protective equipment shall be disregarded.

In the first instance the umpire decides that the bowling of short pitched deliveries has become
dangerous under 41.6.1

41.6.1.1 The umpire shall call and signal No ball, and when the ball is dead, caution the bowler and
inform the other umpire, the captain of the fielding side and the batters of what has occurred. This
caution shall apply to that bowler throughout the innings.

41.6.1.2 If there is a second instance, the umpire shall repeat the above procedure and indicate to
the bowler that this is a final warning, which shall apply to that bowler throughout the innings.

41.6.1.3 Should there be any further instance by the same bowler in that innings, the umpire shall -
call and signal No ball

         - when the ball is dead, direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler
         immediately from bowling

         - inform the other umpire for the reason for this action.

The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings.

If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled any part
of the previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.

         - The umpire shall inform the batters and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the batting
         side.

41.6.1.4 A bowler shall be limited to one (for T20)/two (30 or 40 overs game) fast short-pitched
delivery per over.

41.6.1.5 A fast short-pitched delivery is defined as a ball, which passes or would have passed above
the shoulder height of the striker standing upright at the popping crease.

41.6.1.6 The umpire at the bowler's end shall advise the bowler and the batter on strike when each
fast short pitched delivery has been bowled.
                                                                                                              76

41.6.1.7 In addition, a ball that passes above head height of the batter, standing upright at the
popping crease, that prevents him from being able to hit it with his/her bat by means of a normal
cricket stroke shall be called a Wide. See also clause 22.1.1.2

41.6.1.7.1 For the avoidance of doubt any fast short pitched delivery that is called a Wide under this
clause shall also count as one of the allowable short pitched deliveries in that over.

41.6.1.8 In the event of a bowler bowling more than one (for T20)/two (30 or 40 overs game) fast
short- pitched delivery in an over as defined in clause 41.6.1.5 above, the umpire at the bowler's end
shall call and signal No ball on each occasion. A differential signal shall be used to signify a fast short
pitched delivery. The umpire shall call and signal `No ball' and then tap the head with the other
hand.

41.6.1.9 If a bowler delivers a second (T20)/Third (30 or 40 Over game) fast short pitched ball in an
over, the umpire, after the call of No ball and when the ball is dead, shall caution the bowler, inform
the other umpire, the captain of the fielding side and the batters at the wicket of what has occurred.
This caution shall apply throughout the innings.

41.6.1.10 If there is a second (T20)/Third (30 or 40 Over game) instance of the bowler being No
balled in the innings for bowling more than one (for T20)/two (30 or 40 overs game) fast short
pitched delivery in an over, the umpire shall advise the bowler that this is his/her final warning for
the innings.

41.6.1.11 Should there be any further instance by the same bowler in that innings, the umpire shall -
call and signal No ball

         - when the ball is dead, direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler
         immediately from bowling

         - inform the other umpire for the reason for this action.
         The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings.

If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled any part
of the previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.

         - The umpire shall inform the batters and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the batting
         side.

41.6.2 Should the umpires initiate the caution and warning procedures set out in clauses 41.6.1.3,
41.6.1.9 and 41.7, such cautions and warnings are not to be cumulative.

41.7 Bowling of dangerous and unfair non-pitching deliveries

41.7.1 Any delivery, which passes or would have passed, without pitching, above waist height of the
striker standing upright at the popping crease, is to be deemed to be unfair, whether or not it is
likely to inflict physical injury on the striker. If the bowler bowls such a delivery the umpire shall
immediately call and signal No ball.

If, in the opinion of the umpire, such a delivery is considered likely to inflict physical injury on the
batter by its speed and direction, it shall be considered dangerous. When the ball is dead the umpire
shall caution the bowler, indicating that this is a first and final warning. The umpire shall also inform
                                                                                                              77

the other umpire, the captain of the fielding side and the batters of what has occurred. This caution
shall apply to that bowler throughout the innings.

41.7.2 Should there be any further instance (where a dangerous non-pitching delivery is bowled and
is considered likely to inflict physical injury on the batter) by the same bowler in that innings, the
umpire shall

         - call and signal No ball

         - when the ball is dead, direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler
         immediately from bowling

         - inform the other umpire for the reason for this action.

The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings.

If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled any part
of the previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.

Additionally, the umpire shall:

         - report the occurrence to the batters and, as soon as practicable, to the captain of the
         batting side.

41.7.3 The warning sequence in clauses 41.7.1 and 41.7.2 is independent of the warning and action
sequence in clause 41.6.

41.7.4 If the umpire considers that a bowler deliberately bowled a high full-pitched delivery, deemed
to be dangerous and unfair as defined in clause 41.7.1, then the caution and warning in clause 41.7.1
shall be dispensed with. The umpire shall

         - immediately call and signal No ball.

         - when the ball is dead, direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler
         immediately from bowling and inform the other umpire for the reason for this action.

The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings.

If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled any part
of the previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.

         - report the occurrence to the batters and, as soon as practicable, to the captain of the
         batting side.

41.8 Bowling of deliberate front-foot No ball

If the umpire considers that the bowler has delivered a deliberate front-foot No ball, he/she shall -
immediately call and signal No ball.
                                                                                                              78

         - when the ball is dead, direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler
         immediately from bowling

         - inform the other umpire for the reason for this action.

The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings.

If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled any part
of the previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.

         - report the occurrence to the batters and, as soon as practicable, to the captain of the
         batting side.

41.9 Time wasting by the fielding side

41.9.1 It is unfair for any fielder to waste time.

41.9.2 If either umpire considers that the progress of an over is unnecessarily slow, or time is being
wasted in any other way, by the captain of the fielding side or by any other fielder, at the first
instance the umpire concerned shall:

         - if the ball is in play, call and signal Dead ball.
         - inform the other umpire of what has occurred.

The bowler's end umpire shall then:

         - warn the captain of the fielding side, indicating that this is a first and final warning. - inform
         the batters of what has occurred.

41.9.3 If either umpire considers that there is any further waste of time in that innings by any fielder,
the umpire concerned shall

         - if the ball is in play, call and signal Dead ball.

         - inform the other umpire of what has occurred.

The bowler's end umpire shall then award 5 Penalty runs to the batting side and inform the captain
of the fielding side of the reason for this action.

Additionally, the umpire shall inform the batters and, as soon as is practicable, the captain of the
batting side of what has occurred.

41.10 Batter wasting time

41.10.1 It is unfair for a batter to waste time. In normal circumstances, the striker should always be
ready to take strike when the bowler is ready to start his/her run-up.
                                                                                                              79

41.10.2 Should either batter waste time by failing to meet this requirement, or in any other way, the
following procedure shall be adopted. At the first instance, either before the bowler starts his/her
run- up or when the ball becomes dead, as appropriate, the umpire shall:

         - warn both batters and indicate that this is a first and final warning. This warning shall apply
         throughout the innings. The umpire shall so inform each incoming batter.

         - inform the other umpire of what has occurred.

         - inform the captain of the fielding side and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the
         batting side of what has occurred.

41.10.3 If there is any further time wasting by any batter in that innings, the umpire shall, at the
appropriate time while the ball is dead:

         - award 5 Penalty runs to the fielding side.

         - inform the other umpire of the reason for this action.

         - inform the other batter, the captain of the fielding side and, as soon as practicable, the
         captain of the batting side of what has occurred.

41.16 Batters stealing a run

41.16.1 It is unfair for the batters to attempt to steal a run during the bowler's run-up.

Unless the bowler attempts to run out the non-striker ­ see clause 38.3 (Non-striker leaving his/her
ground early) ­ the umpire shall:

         - call and signal Dead ball as soon as the batters cross in such an attempt.

         - inform the other umpire of the reason for this action. The bowler's end umpire shall then

         - return the batters to their original ends and disallow the attempted run.

         - award 5 Penalty runs to the fielding side.

         - award any other 5 run Penalty that is applicable

         - inform the batters, the captain of the fielding side and, as soon as practicable, the captain
         of the batting side, of the reason for this action.

41.17 Penalty runs

41.17.1 When Penalty runs are awarded to either side, when the ball is dead the umpire shall signal
the Penalty runs to the scorers. See clause 2.13.

41.17.2 Penalty runs shall be awarded in each case where these Playing Conditions require the
award, even if a result has already been achieved. See clause 16.6
                                                                                                              80

Note, however, that the restrictions on awarding Penalty runs, in clauses 23.3, 34.4 and 28.3, will
apply.

41.17.3 When 5 Penalty runs are awarded to the batting side under any of clauses 24.4, 28.2, or 28.3
or under 41.3, 41.4, 41.5, 41.9 or 41.12, then:

         - they shall be scored as Penalty extras and shall be in addition to any other penalties.

         - they are awarded when the ball is dead and shall not be regarded as runs scored from
         either the immediately preceding delivery or the immediately following delivery and shall be
         in addition to any runs from those deliveries.

         - the batters shall not change ends solely by reason of the 5 run penalty.

41.17.4 When 5 Penalty runs are awarded to the fielding side, under clause 18.5.2, or under 41.10,
41.14, 41.15 or 41.16, they shall be added as Penalty extras to that side's total of runs in its most
recently completed innings. If the fielding side has not completed an innings, the 5 Penalty runs shall
be added to the score in its next innings.

42 PLAYERS' CONDUCT

42.1 Serious misconduct

42.1.1 The umpires shall act upon any serious misconduct and shall be reported to DCL management
at the earliest by submitting a ticket on the DCL portal

42.2 Level 4 offences and action by umpires

42.2.1 Any of the following actions by a player shall constitute a Level 4 offence: - threatening to
assault an umpire

         - making inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with an umpire

         - physically assaulting a player or any other person

         - committing any other act of violence.

42.2.2 If such an offence is committed, 42.2.2.1 to 42.2.2.5 shall be implemented.

42.2.2.1 The umpire shall call Time.

42.2.2.2 Together the umpires shall summon and inform the offending player's captain that an
offence at this Level has occurred.

42.2.2.3 The umpires shall instruct the captain to remove the offending player immediately from the
field of play for the remainder of the match and shall apply the following:

42.2.2.3.1 If the offending player is a fielder, no substitute shall be allowed for him/her. He/she is to
be recorded as Retired ­ out at the commencement of any subsequent innings in which his/her team
is the batting side.
                                                                                                              81

42.2.2.3.2 If a bowler is suspended mid-over, then that over must be completed by a different
bowler, who shall not have bowled the previous over nor shall be permitted to bowl the next over.

42.2.2.3.3 If the offending player is a batter he/she is to be recorded as Retired ­ out in the current
innings, unless he/she has been dismissed under any of clauses 32 to 39, and at the commencement
of any subsequent innings in which his/her team is the batting side. If no further batter is available
to bat, the innings is completed.

42.2.2.4 As soon as practicable, the umpire shall:

         - award 5 Penalty runs to the opposing team - signal the Level 4 penalty to the scorers

         - call Play.

42.2.2.5 The umpires shall then report the matter to the DCL management at the earliest by
submitting a ticket on the DCL portal

42.3 Captain refusing to remove a player from the field

42.3.1 If a captain refuses to carry out an instruction under 42.2.2.3, the umpires shall invoke clause
16.2 Umpire awarding a match).

42.3.2 If both captains refuse to carry out instructions under 42.2.2.3 in respect of the same
incident, the umpires shall instruct the players to leave the field. The match is not concluded as in
clause 16.2 and there shall be no result under clause 16.

Appendix A:

One Over Per Side Eliminator (OOPSE) also known as super-over

1. Subject to weather conditions the one over per side eliminator/Super over will take place on the
scheduled day of the match at a time to be determined by umpires. In normal circumstances it shall
commence 10 minutes after the conclusion of the match.

2. The amount of extra time allocated to the Oopse is 30 minutes. Should play be delayed prior to or
during the Oopse, once the playing time lost exceeds the extra time allocated, the Oopse shall be
abandoned.

3. The one over per side eliminator will take place on the pitch and ground allocated for the match

4. The umpires shall stand at the same end as that in which they finished the match. The team that
batted second in the actual match bats first in super over.

5. In both innings of the one over per side eliminator, the fielding side shall choose from which end
to bowl.

6. Only nominated players in the main match may participate in the one over per side eliminator.
Should any player (including the batsmen and bowler) be unable to continue to participate in the
one over per side eliminator due to injury, illness or other wholly acceptable reasons, the relevant
                                                                                                    82

Laws and Playing Conditions as they apply in the main match shall also apply in the one over per side
eliminator.

7. Any penalty time being served in the main match shall be carried forward to the one over per side
eliminator.

8. Each team's over is played with the same fielding restrictions as apply for the last over in a normal
T20 International match.

9. The team batting second in the match will bat first in the one over eliminator.

10. The same ball used in the respective regular innings will be used in the respective Super over
innings too

11. The loss of two wickets in the over ends the team's one over innings.

12. In the event of the teams having the same score after the one over per side eliminator has been
completed the team whose batsmen hit the most number of boundaries combined from its two
innings in both the main match and the one over per side eliminator shall be the winner.

13. If the number of boundaries hit by both teams is equal, the team whose batsmen scored more
boundaries during its innings in the main match (ignoring the over per side eliminator) shall be the
winner.

14. If still equal, a count-back from the final ball of the one over eliminator shall be conducted. The
team with the higher scoring delivery shall be the winner. If a team loses two wickets during its over,
then any unbowled deliveries will be counted as dot balls. Note that for this purpose, the runs
scored from a delivery is defined as the total team runs scored since the completion of the previous
legitimate ball, i.e including any runs resulting from wides, no ball or penalty runs.

Example

Runs scored from  Team 1  Team 2
       Ball 6        1       1
       Ball 5        4       4
       Ball 4        2       1
       Ball 3        6       2
       Ball 2        0       1
       Ball 1        2       6

In this example both teams scored an equal number of runs from the 6th and 5th ball of their
innings. However, team 1 scored 2 runs from its 4th ball while team 2 scored a single so team 1 is
the winner.

15. If still equal the following shall apply: " In the league stage, the result will be a tie and the points
shared accordingly.

" At the knock out stage winner will be decided as under:

Including and up to the Semi Finals following procedure to be followed:
                                                                                                    83

a) The team with most wins in all previous matches including league matches.

b) If still equal, the teams with higher net run rate in all previous matches including the league
matches where results are achieved.

c) If still equal, the team with the higher number of wickets per balls bowled in all previous matches
including the league matches in which results are achieved.

d) If still equal then by toss of coin in the presence of the umpires.

" In the finals both teams will be declared as joint winners if results are not achieved after 2
reschedules.

Appendix B:

Missed Umpiring's and Walkover Penalties Please Share this with your teams Immediately

All fines have to be paid within 3 days of the offense else the team will forfeit their next
game. Team will not be allowed to continue further in the tournament until they pay the
fine.

  Missed Umpiring    T20 Penalty Amount     30 over Penalty    40 Over Penalty
     Per Season                                 Amount              Amount
                     $100 + 2 Points
1 st Offense Missed  Docked              $150 + 2 Points     $200 + 2 Points
Umpiring             $150 + 2 Points     Docked              Docked
2 nd Offense Missed  Docked              $200 + 2 Points     $250 + 2 Points
Umpiring             $200 + 2 Points     Docked              Docked
3rd Offense Missed   Docked              $250 + 2 Points     $250 + 2 Points
Umpiring Team will                       Docked              Docked
be suspended from
the league

Playoff missed umpiring penalty per team $150 fine. (If penalties are not paid, Teams will
not be allowed to participate in any future games)

Common Teams Missed Umpiring Penalties Per Season

Total Four umpiring's missed by common teams in a season both common teams will be
suspended from the league

In a DCL Calendar Year Starting every Spring season and Ending Fall season if any team
[which doesn't have any common teams] misses 4 umpiring in a whole year, the team will
be suspended from the League.
                                                                                                              84

In a DCL Calendar Year Starting every Spring season and Ending Fall season if a team [which
has common teams] misses 5 umpiring in total by both the teams in a whole year both the
team will be suspended from the League.

Walk Over Rules for a Calendar Year by Single team or Common teams: Walkover
Penalties $200 per walkover must be paid immediately.

Single Team: Two Walkovers per Calendar Year the team will be suspended from the league
Common Teams: If a total of three Walkovers by both or any one team, both teams will be
suspended from the league.

Appendix C:

Other Generic Guidelines for DCL Tape Ball Cricket League: (Please also refer to DCL By-
Laws)

1. Each team is required to carry proper equipment /cricketing gear that are required to
play the game. Organizers are not responsible for providing any cricketing gear.

2. Transfer of players between teams is not allowed during a tournament unless otherwise
approved by the Scheduling committee.

3. A player is NOT allowed to play for more than one team irrespective of whether the
teams are in the same division or different divisions.

4. The organizers are not responsible for providing any drinks

5. The exact position of the pitch and the boundaries will be set before each game
depending on the ground conditions. The two teams will be responsible to set up the
ground. Bowling will take place from only one end.

6. Teams are required to clean-up the ground/pavilion after the game and to put back any
items they may have moved before the game.

7. If a team has more than 11 players on the ground, the team is required to register the
playing 11 names with the umpire before the start of the game. This way they cannot pick
and choose the playing 11 after the match has started. They can write the player names
behind the score sheet.

8. A new batsman must be ready to take strike within 90 seconds after the dismissal of the
previous batsman.

Appendix D:

1. Every team needs to take umpiring responsibility VERY seriously and is required to send umpire(s)
for their umpiring duty.
                                                                                                              85

2. Swapping umpiring duty between/among teams is strictly prohibited. This is to avoid
manipulation by any team and to eliminate unwanted controversies that organizers had to deal with
in prior tournaments. Also, while scheduling games, organizers try to avoid putting both umpires
from the same team to officiate a game; this may be compromised if swapping is allowed.

3. Two players sharing 1 umpiring duty is not allowed

4. If any team makes alternate arrangements for umpiring, it's their responsibility to make sure the
umpire shows-up. If there is no show by the umpire, the originally scheduled team will be penalized.
This is to discourage any kind of manipulation by the team that misses umpiring.

5. If teams make any alternate arrangements for umpiring, they need to notify the organizers and
the affected team captains/ vice captains 24 hours before the game.

6. Teams will be docked 2 points for missing each umpiring duty. In addition, there is a monetary
fine of $50 for the first offense and $100 for the repeat offense. Team is required to pay the fine
within 3 days of the offense; otherwise, they will have to forfeit their next game. Teams will not be
allowed to continue further in the tournament until they pay the fine. This penalty may impact the
team ranking and might be carried over to the next tournament too.

7. Teams might also get suspended for 1 or more tournaments for repeated missing of their
umpiring duty.

8. Teams should ensure that the umpire sent for the umpiring duty has the proper knowledge of DCL
rules and can control the match.

9. If the umpire does not meet the above requirement, the umpiring team treated as missed
umpiring and will be charged per Appendix B. This will be decided based on the feedback provided
from both the playing captains.

10. Each team is required to carry the following equipment's

         a. Bats
         b. Balls/Tapes - should collect from the organizers
         c. Wicket keeping gloves
         d. Flat cones to mark the inner circle Cones/flags to mark the boundaries
         f. Fully charged phone for scoring
         g. Medical kit for emergency
         h. Stumps and Bails
         i. Spray cans to paint the crease
         j. Score sheets, clipboard and pens (in case of DCL website scoring not working).
         k. Chalk Piece
         m. Any other items that are necessary to play the game

Appendix E:

· For DCL tape ball game Batsman or wicket Keeper is not allowed to wear cricket pads anytime
during a match.
· Wicket keeper can wear face guard (baseball style for protection). Wicket- Keeper are allowed to
wear Helmet
· Wicket keeping gloves is a MUST.
· DCL highly recommends for Batsman to wear Helmets,
                                                                                                              86

· Batsman can wear batting gloves (Cricket OR Golf) - only for DCL Tape ball games
· During winter games when temperatures are below 50, Fielders are allowed to wear woolen
gloves.
· Abdominal Guard is a MUST while batting and keeping
· Players or Umpires should NEVER wear Shorts!!!
· Players or Umpires should wear Sport Shoes [NO Sandals or Slippers allowed]
· Metal Spikes on the shoes are not allowed while bowling as it would damage the Carpet.
· For DCL Tape ball regular shin guards are allowed for safety purposes. Irrespective of where the
guards are worn (Under the pants or above the pants rules on type of guards should be strictly
followed. In case of medical situation (Ligament, Knee issues, Arthritis), medical guards/ tapes are
allowed only if worn for entire game and are pre-approved/ notified to the umpires. Failing to notify
the umpire would result in disqualification of the player and would not be allowed to bat in the
game.

Idea of restriction for DCL Tape ball for leg guard usage is not to hurt our players but to have a fair
play, since we don't have LBW, batsman could wear these guards and stand in front of wicket and
take unfair advantage. Umpires from each team needs to follow these rules and captains needs to
be vigil and inform umpires. These rules needs to be discussed before the start of play to avoid
unwanted stoppage of play during the play

Oly for DCL: For the images of permissible guards, see below
                                                                                                              87

Appendix F:

                                          DCL Uniform guidelines
DCL has some strict Uniform guidelines for the teams who wish to have team uniform. If teams don't
have uniforms, they can wear any colored clothing which falls under the guidelines below.
Shirts:
1. The playing shirts shall be colored other than white, cream or any light color which is likely to
make the sighting of a white ball difficult.
2. The colors and design of the playing shirts (including Logos) shall be uniform to all members of the
same team.
3. There should not be a white patch on any shirt which is bigger than 3 Inches in Height and Length.
4. Playing shirt sleeves may be cut to any length, as long as both sleeves are evenly trimmed, and the
edges are sewn and hemmed.
5. In the event of names and/or numbers of players being carried on the playing shirts, they shall
correctly reflect the identity of the player. The number on the shirts shall be clearly legible,
positioned in the center back of the shirt. Minimum Length 9.75 Inches or Maximum 14 Inches
6. The numbers shall be sewn on or fixed by heat transfer and not affixed by Velcro or any
temporary means.
7. The names must be positioned above or below the number on the back of the shirt and the letters
used must be clearly legible.
                                                                                                              88

8. The names and numbers may not contain any advertising elements.

9. In addition, one of the following numbers is permitted to be displayed on the playing shirts in a
position immediately below the Team Logo. Such numbers shall not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in) in
height. A player's initials may be displayed on the chest or sleeve of the playing shirt. Such initials
shall not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in) in height.

10. DCL Logo must be placed on Chest/Sleeves and back.

11. Zips, Poppers, Buttons and Velcro are not permitted anywhere from the bottom of the chest.

Trousers:

1. The playing trousers shall be colored other than white, cream or any light color which is likely to
make the sighting of a white ball difficult, the decision of the umpire shall be final.

2. The colors and design of the playing trousers (including Logos) shall be uniform to all members of
the same team.

3. In the event of numbers being carried on the trousers, they shall be clearly legible and positioned
on the front of either leg above the knee.

4. The numbers shall be sewn on or fixed by heat transfer and not affixed by Velcro or any
temporary means.

5. Zips, Poppers, Buttons and Velcro are not permitted anywhere from the knee up to the waist.

Note: A bowler will not be permitted to bowl if he is wearing white/cream or any light color
(Shirt/Trouser) which is likely to make sighting of ball difficult will not be permitted to bowl.

During Winter, Bowlers are not allowed to wear White/Cream Sweater/Jacket and winter Cap. If
Batsman raises objection bowler has to remove it not arguments.

Sample:
